This is Jockel Podcast number 79.
With echo Charles and me, Jockel Willing.
Good evening, echo.
Good evening.
And it has been a little while since we were able to hammer out some Q&A.
Sure, questions from the interwebs.
And so, here we are.
Number 79, let's answer some questions from the interwebs.
What do you got?
Cool, go.
First question.
Jockel, wait.
Should we spend a bunch of time with a bunch of fluff and talk about nonsense or should we get
to the questions?
What about 27 minutes worth of advertisements?
Let's get to the questions.
Rock and roll.
I am a vascular surgeon training resident.
How do you apply decentralized command when your team changes every one to three months?
Yeah, solid question.
And with something like that, what we need to do is we need to get an standard operating
procedure in place with clear documentation, some kind of a qualification and approval
process and then a monitoring system in place.
So the reason I can kind of, the reason that's pretty easy transition from you to make mentally
is because we would have to do this kind of thing sometimes in the sealed teams.
When you get, for instance, your overseas on deployment in a war zone and you get some
guys that show up to work halfway through the deployment or two months into deployment or
three weeks before deployment ends.
You get some guys that show up their seals, right?
So they, they, they, they understand the fundamental concepts, but you haven't worked with
them specifically before.
They haven't worked with the platoon before.
They don't know the area of operations that you're in specifically.
They don't know what kind of mission specifically you're conducting and where the intel is
coming from.
They don't know anything other than the fundamental knowledge of being a seal.
But as far as that particular job goes, they don't know too much.
So what you have to do is you have to run them through a bunch of familiarization stuff
very quickly about the gun trucks and how your home visa set up.
You've got to make sure that you can get on a 50 count on a Mark 48 and a Mark 19 and
understand our cruiser of weapons and how we operate them because our cruiser of weapons
by the way, a lot of times we most of the time operate our cruiser of weapons alone.
So they got to make sure they can do this humvies, right?
A lot of the older guys and the sealed themes before the war started, they wouldn't know
how to operate a humvie.
So you had to make sure they knew how to do that.
They had to understand the mission.
Why we were doing the mission?
What was important about it?
What was the commander's intent?
They had to know the rules of engagement.
Because the military will take a guy that lands in country and they'll give him like
a 30 minute brief to welcome it in country and 30 seconds of it will be a rules of engagement
brief and they won't really understand it.
So you got to make sure they understand that.
You got to win the last time they did med training, medical training.
Wends the last time they did that has been like 12 years since they put on a turn of
kit.
Okay, not good.
We got to get him from the U.S. on that.
How they're going to stop the bleeding, the different ID threats that are out there because
the ID threats change all the time.
What kind of trigger mechanisms are being used and what kind of identifying marks are for
ID.
So it's all this stuff.
The list goes on and on and so you have to develop some kind of a standard operating procedure.
Hey, when a guy shows up, this is what we need to do with them.
Boom, they need to go through this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this,
this little checklist you put together and then if the person's a leader, maybe you
got to go and do a couple of left seat rights, he rides with them.
So does that make did, did, did do other people use that terminology, left seat rights
it?
Not that I know.
Okay, so if I was the Patoon Commander and you were coming in to take over for me,
we would plan a mission together and I would be in charge of the mission.
So I'd be in the driver's seat.
Oh, like a pilot copilot.
Yes.
So you'd be watching and you'd be in the passenger seat and I would be running everything
and then maybe we do that a couple times and you're just watching me and then we switch
seats, you get the driver's seats, but I'm still there watching and telling you to move
a little left, to move a little right and then eventually you got it and then I'm going
to leave, go on.
So yeah.
So maybe if the person's a leader, you got to do two or three or four options or whatever
to get them a good turnover.
So now in all these situations or if it's not a full on turnover because that you're going to
walk away from, but if it's just a, you've got some other group, small entity or people
that are coming in, you're not going to be able to give them that full 100% decentralized
command, right?
You're still going to have to keep a little bit more watch on them because you're not
going to build up the full level of trusts and one to three months, that's just not possible.
So there will be a little bit of limitations, but you can definitely, you can definitely
move pretty far down the path and one other thing that's going to help, I said document
and it's very smart to put together a document with very clear roles and responsibilities
and expectation and then not just give them the document and say hey, read this letter.
No, no, no, you sit down and go over every single thing with them.
So what you're trying to do is you're trying to condense this timeline of building trust
into the shortest possible time and one of the ways you do that is by condensing everything
into a simple clear concise format, written format, go through, talk it with them so they
understand it and get to do it very clearly.
When I was in task in a bruiser, I didn't lay anything like that out for the platoon commanders,
for life and the adult platoon commander and say, here's the brawls and I did that over
a long period of time, over a year work up now that, now within a few months, they kind
of knew what the deal was, but if I would have, if that would have been my normal job
and I would have been getting a new platoon commanders every three months, every time they
came in, I'll be like, are you a new platoon commander?
So this is what a platoon commander does.
This is the rules and rules and responsibilities.
This is the expectations that I have for you.
This is when you call me, this is when you make a decision on your own, lay all that stuff
perfectly clear and that way I could more quickly develop a sense of decentralized command.
Now again, it's not going to be full decentralized command.
You're not going to lose a lot of money, run with it.
They've only been to you for three months and, you know, I don't know what the timeline
is to, for a vascular surgeon to get total trust in their subordinate vascular surgeons or
their subordinate team members, but I'm sure it takes longer than one to three months.
So how much can you condense the timeline?
What can you do to condense it?
Why don't you get a condense as much as you can?
You're still going to have to do a little bit more monitoring than you would normally do.
But it is still going to be beneficial.
It's going to be beneficial for them and it will be beneficial for you to operate as much
as you can in the decentralized methodology.
So when you say condense the timeline, that's for the procedure.
No, it's condense the timeline to build trust.
Oh, actually.
So I want to, decentralized command is about trust, right?
If I trust you and you trust me, it goes up and down.
If I'm in charge and I trust you, that means you're going to go out and you know what to
do.
And when you're out there, you know you trust that I am going to cover for you and I'm
going to trust the decisions that you make.
So decentralized command is about trust.
In order to have trust, we have to have understanding.
And in order to understand things, we have to work together.
So what I'm trying to do is I'm trying to condense the timeline that it takes us to build
trust.
And how do I do that?
I just have been very direct and lay things out in a very simple clear concise format
so that you can understand it.
Gotcha.
Very quickly.
That's my goal.
Makes sense.
Next question.
Then and how is the right way to skip the chain of command when you feel like your direct
superior is a part of the problem.
Big one.
Big one because this is very, very problematic and skipping the chain of command is a last
resort.
It is a last resort.
Why is it a last resort?
Because when you skip the chain of command, you're breaking the trust I just talked about
your breaking it.
The relationship that you've been building, you're damaging it.
It's not good.
Sometimes it's un-salvigible, by the way.
Sometimes when you skip the chain of command, you will never be able to recover from
that.
Now, of course, if there's something that your media spirit is doing, that's illegal or
immoral or unethical, if that's the case, then it's actually your duty to go above them in
the chain of command.
Now, do you still first report it to them and say, hey, what you did is wrong, we're not
going to do that.
Yes, you should tell them first unless it's going to cause you to get in some horrible
situation.
Now, this is an interesting thing that I thought about.
Let's say you and I are working together and you're my boss.
And you let's say you're doing something that's immoral, illegal, unethical, right?
And I watch you do it.
And I see you leaning towards it.
I'm like, oh, I think he's going to do something that's illegal right here.
And I don't want to say anything.
And then I watch you do it.
And then I run up the chain of command report.
You can bust you, right?
You got to be careful with that.
And I think when you work for someone or when someone works for you, you need to lay it right
out of the gate.
Hey, this is where I stand.
I'm not going to cover for you if you do some stupid illegal things.
You don't wait for them to do it and then drop the hammer on them.
Maybe I'm being overly fair.
Maybe we should be all out to get people that are doing something that they shouldn't
be doing part of the problem.
Yeah, I believe that's my belief.
When I meet you and I say, hey, what's going on?
And you make a little crack.
You make a little joke.
You say, well, you know, it's not like the business.
Like the customers can really see that money.
You know, let's say you're going to skin money.
So, right, right?
Yeah, that's what you got.
And you make a little joke like that.
And what you're doing is testing the waters with me.
You're testing my ethical moral stuff.
And I'm going to say, yeah, there's no way they would ever know.
And besides, we pretty much work for it anyways, right?
You're going to see if you're going to get that reaction.
So, you know, we just, you know, sometimes we get to get a little charge of the
lexter on that install, right?
Maybe we're maybe we're some kind of installers at a house.
Yeah, you know, I usually throw a little up charge on here.
They never know if that's type of wall, whatever, right?
You throw that test at me.
It's my duty.
If I'm the type of person that's going to report you for scimming money from the
customers, then I should tell you like, man, that's not going to go, no.
Yeah.
No, those customers, you know, here's my view.
Is those customers that we're out there trying to do this install for?
They had to work hard for that money and I don't want to be taken up from them.
Now you kind of know.
You better not be doing that in front of me.
As opposed to me smiling and going along with your joke, and then three months later,
I report, you know, I turn over report to the boss man.
Yeah.
So, I don't think that's very ethical evil.
Yeah, it's kind of like a mislead you.
It's a little bit of a backstab.
Yeah.
Now, are there cases?
Of course, where somebody's doing something that's just outrageously unethical and you
didn't know about it or something?
You pretty much know, though.
You can tell when people are doing shady things.
Yeah.
So, so I think that that is something, okay.
So let me, let me, let me close this thought or at least make a point of this thought.
My point of this thought is it's the same thing that happens a lot when people don't like
to have hard conversations.
So it's an easy conversation when you say, you know, those customers never know where
their money goes and it's only 12 bucks of thing and it's no big deal.
The easiest thing for me to do is to smile and say, yeah.
Right.
That's the easiest.
And that's not that big of a deal.
Right.
It gets so much harder.
The further we go down that road, it gets harder and harder and harder because then
you start saying, hey, you know, it's only, you know, we've been to gaming like 12 bucks.
Guess what?
They never notice this other charge either and I can get them for $62.
And then all of a sudden it's a harder conversation.
So have the hard conversation earlier.
It'll make it easier for you.
So that being said, now how do we escalate above you and the chain of command?
First of all, my goal is to not escalate above you and the chain of command.
My goal is to actually raise the situation to you and bring it up to you and say, hey,
echo, you know, the way we've been doing this job, you know, I think we should do it
a different way.
I think there's a better way to treat the customer whatever the thing is, better way
to attack this target, whatever the thing is.
And I'm going to have that conversation with you.
I'm going to make two, three, four, five times to try and get you to listen to me.
Now, if the conversation doesn't work, I'm going to escalate it even further.
You know what I'm going to do?
I'm going to actually do a little right up on the right of point paper.
I'm going to say, echo, I was listening to thinking about what we're doing, how we're
hitting this target or how we're loading out our guys or whatever.
And I'm going to write you a point paper.
I'm going to lay it out for you to land what my plan is, what the cost benefits are,
and make that very clear to you.
So that way, I'm giving you every ample opportunity to listen to what I'm saying.
And I'm probably even going to say, hey, maybe we should run this by the boss to see what
they think.
Because if you just keep disagreeing with me and I say, you know, could I, you might
if I bring this to the boss and see what he thinks?
Now what are you going to say to that?
Most of the media are not going to be happy, but I'm giving you a heads up, because I'm
just trying to play open.
And it kind of doesn't it kind of make them reflect too?
It's like, hey, I'm going to, you know, bring some by their will.
One of them say, no, don't bring that to the boss.
It's kind of like, it makes it real overt that they're not doing crap.
Yeah.
So, yeah, you say, and you might get a boss, you might get a boss, because yeah, bring
it to him.
He's going to say the same thing.
I'm telling you.
And then you go, maybe I'm wrong.
Yeah, I'm wrong about this procedure.
Or maybe I'm wrong about how we're going to attack this target.
But it is, and also this is a hard conversation to have.
The hard conversation says someone, man, can we just bring this to the boss or?
And again, I'm not saying, you say, I'm going to bring this to the boss.
No, you say, hey, would you mind if I got his opinion?
Would you mind if I see what she said about this?
And that way, we're not saying, I'm going to the boss.
So, I'm going to love your head.
You can't stop me.
No, that's not what I'm talking about.
So, there's that.
The other thing that you can, so that's sort of a direct approach with your media boss,
which starts by the way with an indirect approach, being like, hey, I go.
You know, it's not the way we're hitting these targets.
Wouldn't it be smart?
Maybe if we hit him from over here, do you think that would work?
And now we're just open up the conversation.
So we've done that.
I can also go indirect with your boss, right?
So your direct boss, who is now two up above me and the chain of credit, I can go indirect
with him at the water fountain.
Right?
Yeah.
Hey, oh, yeah.
Thanks, Paul.
See everything's going great.
Yeah, doing a great job.
Yeah, I'm on Ecos team.
Yeah, yeah, no, it's really good.
It's good.
It's a tough mission.
But, you know, we're always exploring new ways to do it.
You know, we're looking at some other ops.
I was thinking of on another way to hit those targets too, kind of like coming in from this
direction.
Oh.
That's why I did was just drop a little, plant a little seeds, you know?
I have that conversation come up and I'm just going to, that's what I'm going to do.
Plant a little seeds and try and get them to maybe.
I don't know, sounds like a really good idea.
What did Echo think of that?
I, you know, actually, I haven't talked to Echo about it in full detail, but I will.
Not going to have any name in that boss asked me about this and he was mentioned, you
know, I mentioned this other way of doing it and he thought it might be a good idea and I just
want to give you heads up in case he says anything.
I didn't really have a chance, you know, whatever.
So we're just playing the game a little bit.
That's good.
That line, I just want to give you the heads up.
I feel like that's like real good when someone says it.
It is, however, it also gets, it's also a way of saying, hey, I rounded you out.
I ratted you out.
Depending on what it's followed with, it's like, hey, I just want to give you heads up.
The boss, you know, asked me about this and I didn't know how to respond.
So I said this and he was coming talk to you.
I just wanted to give you heads up.
That's different.
I just to give you heads up, I talked to the boss earlier today.
I told him what your deal is.
It's kind of like that.
That's not a good for you.
So yeah, there's all kinds of shade to gray there as well.
And you know, I worked for for a while.
I was the Admiral's aide.
And so I worked for a really great guy, great Admiral, who I had a really good relationship
with, you know.
And if I needed something, he was going to give it to me.
And so when I was a tasking to commander, which is what job I went to immediately when I
got done working for the Admiral, I literally had a direct line to the Admiral because I had
his cell phone number.
I had his office number.
And if I wanted to call him, he wanted to talk to me because we were friends.
But that doesn't mean that I went to him and you know, did all kinds of, you know, I
didn't do that.
No, I never took advantage of that at all.
And was always professional.
But there is this little story where it's odd as this might sound where you're getting
ready to go into plumbing.
And we needed a, what's called a large format color printer.
And it prints out big pieces of paper, large format.
And you need it because you need to make battle maps.
And you need a good one because when you are in an operation every single guy in the
Patuna as a map, so you could have, you might need 810, 1215, 30.
You might need 30 color laminated maps to go out on the mission.
And for whatever reason, I think we had one.
It was kind of crappy.
And the boss, the Admiral, you know, I talked to him before I was going on a plumbing.
I don't know if he called me or I ran into him or whatever.
And he's the Admiral and charge everything.
And he's just, you know, getting a feel for what's going on.
And he says, you know, hey, you have everything you need for the plumbing because he
knew I was leaving in a couple of days or a couple of weeks.
And I said, yeah, you know, sir, we're, we're good to go.
You know, I'm only, right now, believing that I'm just waiting on a printer.
You've got to get one of his large format printers for battle maps, but I, that were,
we're rocking and rolling.
And like that afternoon, I got back to my office and the Commodore.
So now it's two bosses above my immediate boss at the Seal team and one guy below the
Admiral.
We don't have like a message for me.
He was like, hey, and luckily I was friends with him.
He was a, I guess you need a printer.
Let me know what kind of things were you.
He's like, thanks for the heads up.
And I was like, hey, sorry, sir.
I just saw him in the Quiky Mart or whatever.
But yeah, you know, you, you got to, you got to, you don't want to abuse that stuff at
all.
And you got to get to be smart about it.
And it's always, as I'm telling you, it's always, it's, it's not good to skip the chain
of command.
It's not going to, it generally is not going to benefit you.
It generally going to put you in a bad situation.
It's going to give you less leverage with your immediate boss.
Because if I went above the chain command on you, even with you get redirected by our
boss, you are pissed.
Yeah.
And you're going to, you're going to sabotage.
Yeah, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, really, it's a version of going behind
someone's back.
Oh, for sure.
It is.
And it almost even feels like, even if you tell them, it's,
it feels like, oh, you're going to pop my hand.
Yeah, it's going to be behind that.
It's a, it's a really, it's a tough one.
You got to, you got to use caution with that one.
And also, I'll tell you what else it is.
It's, it's an easy, it's, it appears to be the easy way out.
Like, if you're not listening to me, I'm going to go above the chain of command.
Instead of me influencing you, explaining to you, writing point papers to you, building a
relationship with you so that you trust me.
Instead of doing all those things that take time and effort intact, I'm just going to skip
the chain of command until your boss.
That's, that's another negative about it.
It's a cop out.
You shouldn't need to do it.
I can't, like that printer story I just told.
Like, other than that, I'll be going above the chain of command.
And that was almost a comical thing.
Like I said, I was friends with the comador too, who always took great care of me and was laughing
when he left the message.
I go, thanks for the heads up.
You know, he wasn't mad when he said that.
He was, you know, he was laughing because here I was getting ready to play
to Iraq and what I want is a printer.
That's what we need, which can tell you how dialed in we were and how much great gear
we had because the only thing that was left that we needed was a printer.
You know, that's what I was at.
I got all the, everything we needed, but I needed a printer.
So you went above his head and I get it.
Yeah.
But you got to, you know, other than that, it's really hard for me to think of other times
in my naval career where I went above someone in the chain of command.
It just didn't happen.
You know, I'm going to take the time to build a relationship with my immediate boss and
they're going to do what I want them to do.
They're going to give me what I want them to give me.
They're going to support me the way I need to get supported.
That's what I'm going to do.
That's leading up the chain of command.
Skipping the chain of command isn't really leadership.
So try not to do it.
Kind of like when you're kid in your, you got to deal with your older brother or something,
but instead of dealing with him, you go and tattle on him or something like that.
Yeah.
I feel.
Yeah, no, it's the same similar thing.
Not that my little brother tattled on me ever.
And it's like, yeah.
Interesting how you, and it seems like this is the common theme to how you're, uh, like
you want to try the most and the best you can to deal with it yourself, like the
most for sure.
Like from the beginning.
Oh, I don't know.
I mean, just like how you were saying how like if you got to fire someone, you
know, where you want to get to the point where you're dealing with it in the beginning.
Yes.
Like you can't like just let them do the wrong thing.
You be like, yeah, that's cool.
Let them do it for years.
And then be like, you know what, you're fired because of all these wrong things.
You didn't even bring it.
Think about this too, like on the on ethical things, you, you might be, again, I'm going
to walk a fine line here, but you might not recognize.
You might not recognize that what you're doing is on ethical.
You might be like, hey, jocco, you know what I do is I just, I always hit everyone with
this little extra $12 charge, you know, no big deal, no one ever notices it.
And, you know, we're working hard.
And you might just, hey, man, it gives you food for your kids and you're working on a bunch
of rich people's houses, so they can afford 12 bucks.
And it's not that big of a deal to you.
And maybe somebody that you started working for did the same thing.
And that's kind of just a standard operating procedure.
Where's the house like, man, you know what?
That's not good, you know, that's actually, it might not seem like a big deal, but you're
taking money.
You know, you know, like, put money on your table, give you feed your kids and take
money off their table, you know, and whether they're rich or not, money is money.
And I don't think, I don't feel like we should be doing it.
You know what I mean, I can might awaken you and get your ethics back on track and you
might be a good dude because so just because someone was skimming some money doesn't mean
they're horrible person, right?
It means that they went down the wrong path.
It just because someone goes down the wrong path doesn't mean they can come back.
They doesn't mean they cannot come back to the right path.
Man, if I was, if I was, you know, executed every time I did something that was stupid
or bad or, you know, I shouldn't have done.
I would die a thousand deaths by now, right?
We grow up and we learn these things.
We become better people, but we only become better people.
We only learn these things.
If somebody teaches them to us, yeah.
Now we can learn the hard way, which is, you know, all the sudden someone looks at you
and goes away.
What's this charge for 12 bucks?
And then they pull up all your receipts for the last five years you've been working
here.
And then they realize you've stolen money from the company and stolen money from these
customers and they're going to prosecute you because stealing over X amount of dollars
is a felony.
You know what I mean?
So then you learn your lesson, but that's not the lesson we want to learn.
So having those tough conversations like you're talking about having them upfront and
whether it's your, rewrite, whether it's counseling somebody, whether it's dealing with, you
know, my boss, who I want to tell, like, hey, I think there's a better way to do this.
Any of those, the earlier you do them, the easier they are to have.
And the longer you wait to do them, the harder they get.
Yeah.
So also to it's just an overall help.
Like, I don't know, it's hard to not draw the analogy, not the analogy, but the comparison
between like your boss and subordinates type situation and parenting kids, you know, like
for sure.
Just like are you saying sometimes people don't know necessarily that it's unethical or they
don't know what's that unethical or something like that.
That's that's it.
I mean, in my situation with kids, like they don't know.
Essentially, they don't know better, you know?
Like, I don't know.
You take a permanent pen and you draw all over the walls.
You're four or five years old.
And you're like, yeah, sure, I've been drawing on paper this whole time.
So there's no reason for me to think sure I should draw on the walls, but there's really
nothing to tell me not to do.
So they do it.
And then they go get like beat or something.
That or just yell that or something, something, something, some punishment.
Straight up punishment.
Instead of, you know, okay, you didn't know that.
You have to know this.
You know, it's like that kind of stuff.
Bro, I got to, I got to tell the story.
We were, I was going through Officer Canada at school.
And there's a manual and you're going through Officer Canada at school.
I can't remember what it's.
All the rules of Officer Canada is going.
Everything you, this, our uniform supposed to be, this is the way you're locked, supposed
to be.
These are the way you stand, line it, the chow hall, all the, every single rule is in this
book.
And I figured what it's called.
So you live by the code of this book.
And it's very specific rules.
And there was a kid who was going through Officer Canada at school with us.
And he was from another country.
He'd been raised into the country and became an American citizen.
And he was from another country and grew up in a really poor, you know, a really poor
kid.
So good for him.
I mean, he had achieved incredible amount of finishing college going to Officer
Canada at school.
It was awesome.
But he had some habits from growing up in the third world that were a little bit different
for, you know, for Americans.
And one of the things that he would do is he would urinate in the shower.
And not just while he was taking a shower, but when you come back from a class or something,
you know, you'd everyone have to go to the bathroom at the same time.
And so, you know, guys would go in and he filled up the urinals and then there's nowhere
to piss.
So what are you going to do?
Oh, he would just go in the shower and it's a big open shower.
He'd just go in there and piss right in the drain like it was nothing.
Toylet, show.
Yeah, show or whatever.
And one of the American kids, and I'm calling kids.
These guys are all, you know, actually we had a, but some of them were new kids fresh out
of college.
The kid, the kid that was urinating in the shower was fresh out of college.
And one of the older guys who was like me was a prioron listed guy, he came to me and
he said, hey, man, this kid's urinating in the shower.
Like all the time.
And I said, I said, okay, we know, run the water.
He's like, man, I gotta get the, he's like, I've, you know, my squads and charge to cleaning
the showers.
And so these are my guys on the ground, cleaning up his piss.
Is it in cool?
And I was like, all right, cool.
I'll talk to him.
So I went, I said, hey, man, that's a, you know, officer candidate, whatever, can I talk
to you for a second?
He goes, yeah, and he comes in my room.
As a guy, man, you, you know, you're, you're, you're pissing in the shower, just wait
for a toilet.
And he looked at me like I was telling him that he shouldn't breathe air.
Right?
He was like, well, why?
And I said, I said, we'll know because, you know, you're, you're pissing where everyone
walks around and, and he goes, yeah, but they'll water to drain.
It's just all the pipes.
And he goes, and I said, no, it's, it's not, just, just don't do it.
And he goes, it's not in the rule book.
It's what he said to me.
And I go, what do you mean?
The, the, the, the name, the manual.
He goes, it doesn't say in there that you can't piss in the showers.
I was like, well, doesn't say you get piss on my floor.
I don't, or my bed, but I don't want you doing that.
But it was interesting.
My point is that his viewpoint was like, this was totally normal.
And he, and he was a great kid and it's hard worker.
But for him, he was just like, what are you talking about?
Why wouldn't I piss in the shower?
All the, all the pissers are taken.
I'm going to go piss in the shower.
Well, next question.
Let's move on.
I got work to do.
And so I had to explain to him, hey, man, listen, it's, it's a little different.
And people that are cleaning the showers don't want to be,
they're on their hands and he's in, in your piss.
Yeah. So he said, okay, and he, he listened to me.
Mm-hm.
And, but I could see that he listened to me, but he didn't,
100% agree with me.
Right.
He was like, okay, you know, he, he kind of did that, you know?
And it was one of those, where I, I'm trying to explain to him the why,
but it just, it's like you're saying, he literally didn't understand
that that was not acceptable from a hygienic point, hygienic.
Is that right? hygienic.
hygienic from a hygienic point from a, you know, a moral, or a morale point of the,
Oh, yeah.
The morale, they're cleaning up.
So yeah.
That was, that was good times.
You know, we've seen that, um, sign felt, you watch sign felt there.
You know what that is, right?
I know it's not a sign.
That's what they talk about.
Yeah.
It gets caught.
When they guys get caught, taking a leak in the shower at the gym.
You know, the gym takes shower.
And then it's like, you know, they catch you and they, you're ostracized.
Basically, I think Dave and took his man out of no, but he was like, hey, you
believe this, there, whatever, you know, they're, they're mad at me for, you know, pissing
in the shower at the gym.
And he's like, why, why are you confused that they're mad at you, kind of thing?
And he's like, it's all pipes.
It's a little grueling.
You know, he's trying to defend it.
And you can kind of see where in a small team, tiny way, if you don't think about it.
Yeah.
Why not?
It's going down the drain.
You're not pissing on the, on the people.
Hey, I was deployed on a ship.
And I was in off, there was an ensign.
So I just moved up from the, from the troop birthing where I used to be with the elisted
spine.
So at least a proudly call ourselves.
I was on, I was up in the, in the officer area in the, when they call those, they're
the officer country.
So they have a little signs, officer country.
You know, no enlisted allowed.
You lead us.
Yeah, totally lead us.
So I'm in there and I'm living with, we actually had four other seals, seal officers in
this room.
It won the seal officers that would sink in the room, but no bathroom.
So you just had a sink, you brush your teeth, shave, whatever, but if you wanted the
bathroom, you could go down the hallway where the showers and the pissers were.
And so one night, I'm, you know, I'm like, get stirred awake by some noise.
And I see one of my fellow officers is pissing in the sink, right, in the sink.
And, you know, I, I was like, hey man, what are you doing?
He's like, oh my walkin' all the way to the, down to the bathroom.
I was like, yeah, yeah, actually, yes, you are.
That's why I brushed my teeth.
Holmes.
And he, and he was the same way.
He was kind of surprised, like, what's wrong with you?
Yeah.
It's just piss and it's the same pipes, but like, no, do me a favor.
Just walk on down there.
What if he, you're in a didn't sink regularly, but every single time when he was done,
he scrubbed the sink with like, light-hawn stuff.
It's all psychological on that one.
Well, it's not just psychological, but that doesn't even make it worth it.
Now, you might as well walk down there.
Right, I, I dig it, but like, what if that was just his thing?
I mean, well, how would you feel about it?
Don't piss in my sink.
Yeah, right?
It's like, it's like a, what do you call like, customary almost, for reasons, of course.
Yeah, the reasons don't piss you by sink.
You gotta think about it.
Actually in college, we play football and we did like a nice facility too at UH,
but the showers were like guys who do it all the time.
And, but the showers were shaped different where, like, let's say you're facing the shower,
right?
Or you're facing the wall.
At the bottom of the wall was like a gutter.
True, true.
It trance.
Yeah, so it went down.
So if you did and one guy's would even go, you weren't ever standing in it.
So if you're standing in it, that's like, obvious, you know?
But guys who do it, and when I first saw it, I was like, dang, you're just openly doing
it.
Like, one of those guy actually mentions this name before I'm like, I mentioned because pissing
shower, but he's like talking to me while he's pissing in the shower.
Almost like it was a straight up toilet.
It was like the same.
He's like, yeah, I'll talk to him and I'm like, all right, that's how.
So again, it's more like the ethics of the culture almost.
It's what it seemed like.
Yeah, what it seems like to me is don't piss in my sink.
I agree.
Oh, yeah, the sink is different.
It doesn't go different.
It's a different ball game.
Yeah, shower, okay, understood, right?
Like you said, it goes down the drain.
And there's water flowing all over it.
Yeah, you're washing off any washing off.
There's soap coming over it, but you know what?
I got a good idea, just as a general overall rule, pissing the toilet.
Yeah, try the toilet.
Yeah, so we better do that one.
Yeah, the same way, and probably not going to brush your teeth in the toilet.
Yeah, you wouldn't do that.
But the sink is now, if you want to brush your teeth in the toilet, have that.
I won't be mad at you.
I'll be mad at you, bro.
I don't know if I can hang out with you as much or whatever.
But yeah, I understand.
It makes sense.
And it's going to bother you.
It's going to bother you.
I'm talking about skipping the chain of command.
Oh, yeah, that's right.
Because the guy at OCS, Austria-Canard, it's cool.
Yeah, you've got his into the shower.
Got a lot of them up.
You've got to have the hard conversations.
I wonder what happened to him.
He was a hard boy.
Where we see him?
Somewhere like Vietnam, or Louser, something.
Maybe Thailand.
But some Asian, Asian country, Southeast Asian country, hard worker and smart.
Yeah, I would say my opinion about taking a leaking shower is you shouldn't do it.
But if like this guy who's like, oh, that's normal, that doesn't totally surprise me though.
Yeah, no, it doesn't surprise me.
But make sense that guys didn't like it though.
For sure.
Next question.
And don't skip the chain of command if you can avoid it.
Yeah, by the way, yeah, don't forget either.
Yeah, that's it.
Anything going behind someone's back, it just, like, how you say it, it's like, sometimes
you can't repair that.
Yeah, that's hard to repair.
Oh, man.
Hard to repair.
Hello.
How do you rank your longevity in your priorities?
Long jeopardy, this is talking about staying alive for as long as possible.
And of course, I mean, I want to live.
Oh, like how to get revenge.
Yeah, that how do I personally, that's the way it was quick.
The question is actually directed at me.
Jockel will in question for the podcast.
How do you rank your longevity in your priorities?
Long jeopardy being how long you're going to live for.
And for me, I mean, obviously, long jeopardy has some level of importance.
I do want to live for a little while longer.
But and I think that generally my lifestyle and my focus on health and fitness in
Broadway, align with living for a little longer.
So, you know, working out and all that stuff is good.
But there's also an extreme, and I don't know if you know this, I don't know how much
you know about this, or if you've ever read about it, but there's an extreme side of
longevity of trying, if you're goal in life was to live as long as possible, there's
an extreme version of that.
Do you know about this?
I don't know.
How so?
One of the biggest things is you do calorie restriction.
Massive calorie restriction.
You're talking like massive calorie restriction.
And that's one of them.
And believe it or not, you do extremely low levels of physical activity.
Right?
You basically, if your goal was to live as long as possible, you would want to live basically
in a bubble.
And do nothing.
But eat very little and just lay there.
No, Gitu.
And no surfing.
No lifting heavy weights.
None of that stuff.
Now when you're in that mode of longevity, pure longevity, you are not prepared for anything
in the actual world.
Right?
Because your heart can only beat so many times.
And if the less you use it, the longer it's going to be lasting.
But and I'm sure I have that not quite right.
But the problem is if you're not in good shape when you get surprised, your heart can't
handle.
That's the kind of people that I've heard it.
The heart can't handle all this madness when it comes.
So I'm not going there.
It's not worth it for me to live my whole life as a sedentary person half starved and completely
unprepared for anything to happen to me outside of my bubble is not happening.
I'm not going to live that way.
So where does it rank in my priorities?
I think it's an important thing.
But I think my general lifestyle aligns with enough that I don't think about it as much.
And I think overall living life is more important to me than just living.
Yeah.
So let's get a live life.
But if magic, like a magic wizard guy says, I'm the gatekeeper of your whole life, whatever
your life in this situation.
He's a grim repurp.
That's what he was.
And he said, I know when you're going to die, you can't help it.
I just know the future, whatever.
I will give you 20 extra years.
Right now, you're, you know, 40 something years old.
The day you're going to die, whenever that is, I can't tell you that.
Maybe 90, maybe 80, whatever.
But I'll give you 20 more years of fully functional life.
But you've got to stop things you did to right now.
You can never do it ever again.
I probably choke him out.
Next question.
But otherwise, you'd be just as functional.
You can lift, you can surf, you can, you know, you can get after it in every other way.
Just no Gigiitu.
I know martial arts in anyway.
Oh, you know what?
I would double leg them.
And then I would pass his guard and then I would choke him up.
Yeah.
Makes sense.
And I take his sickle and I'd free the world.
So a Gigiitu free life is not life.
That's what you're saying.
I think the minute you start restraining yourself from doing things that you want to do,
you need to take serious considerations in what you're doing.
Yeah.
I also think that hypothetical questions like that are completely ridiculous.
No, they're not.
They're mental exercise.
So that's why.
And then in that case, I will stay with my first answer.
Yeah.
I agree.
If the grim reaper came to me and maybe an offer, I would double leg him.
I would take him down and I would choke him out.
There you go.
I might kill him.
Yeah.
There you go.
See?
Boom.
And you can't do that without you.
Just do so.
As far as the double leg and choking someone up.
So back to your, how you say, you know, the longevity thing.
I didn't know about that actually.
And it makes sense because that's a lot of things.
Like if you want to be the safest you possibly can in life, right?
Same thing.
You're just going to live in a bubble with no threats of any disease, sterilized bubble,
no murders, no car accidents, no nothing, never drive, never do anything.
The same thing.
You'll be so safe.
You'll be the safest person in the world.
Really.
But as far as quote unquote, living life, you know, you go one day out in the wild.
Oh, you're dead.
Same thing.
Like if you restrict all your calories, no hard physical activity, no son, you know,
all this stuff.
The moment you go to everyday life, which is physical in some, less, less, less
way.
Right.
But still physical, they're son.
There's, when you go out, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're
son, right?
So it's like all or nothing.
Yeah.
Take vitamin D pills.
The, the other thing is with calorie restriction is I think, and, you know, I'm reading
about this stuff all the time.
And, but you can get a lot of those benefits by doing some intermittent fast test
for sure.
Yeah.
And you will feel good on the intermittent fasting.
24, 48, 72 hours.
That's the most I've done.
Say no.
And maybe I'll do some more in the future.
Tim Ferris did like seven days.
Okay.
Or actually, you know, I don't know, man.
Yeah.
But and see, and that's, that almost goes into whole, honestly.
When I did 72 hours, the last time I did it, I did the same thing.
I've done it a couple times now.
Every time I feel fine.
Yeah.
I don't feel any of this stuff that people talk about.
Well, yeah.
So, no, I mean, it's, this is almost, you know, I feel hungry for a little while.
Yeah.
But I do, I wasn't like, oh God.
Right.
I wasn't going to die.
No.
Yeah, you were.
But you're talking about a whole different thing.
But I don't know what, people are going to say, people are going to ask on the
interwebs to talk more about intermittent fasting.
No.
Don't ask me.
There's like actual research out there.
Yeah.
Go and Google it.
Look up in the last minute fasting and read about it.
Don't ask me.
I'm the wrong person to ask.
Yeah.
Ask smart people.
And again, the interminute fact, like if you're talking about this,
like, you just brought him to like 10,000 questions on Twitter.
Oh, yeah.
Because it's true.
Don't ask me Google it and look at these really good research papers.
There's all kinds of stuff coming out about it right now.
Now, what's weird about the internet.
And science in general is in, you know, there's a one article that says,
it's great.
You can find two more articles that say it's horrible.
You can find three more articles.
So you can always counter everything.
Yeah.
I mean, that's not a but necessarily about science in general.
It's more about a specific person's viewpoint.
Well, yeah.
Based on what they've done.
Yeah, for sure.
I've done that for sure.
And especially with diet and health, it's so ambiguous.
And so adaptable and stuff like that.
So, but if you're talking about fasting, that's that's,
you talk about something different.
Like, you know, people fast for a specific reason,
or even a kind of a general reason, but it's like,
fasting alone isn't going to make you achieve whatever it is you're doing.
You know, it's a complete, just like lifting,
like with lifting, you need nutrition.
You need rest.
You need all this stuff for a specific results.
And then there's all kinds of different lifting.
You know, so you can't just be like,
oh, yeah, I want bigger muscle.
So I'm just going to lift that's it.
No nutrition.
I'm not going to eat it all.
Or no rest.
I'm not going to rest at all.
So the point there is when you go trying to live as long as you possibly can,
it's like you have to, like, that has to be the objective.
Just to live everything else is not the window.
So you, yeah, I don't, I agree with you.
I don't think that that's living necessarily.
I don't think there's too many people that are just on the full-on,
the longevity gig.
Yeah.
But there are some?
Yeah, I know.
I know one.
I'm not going to mention his name.
Jack, I guess it's a bit your little secret.
Next question.
Similar question.
Yeah.
Jacko.
Prioritizing execute is it wrong to sacrifice health in short term to accomplish work objectives,
and how would you make up the time lost?
So yeah, absolutely.
Sometimes you have to sacrifice workouts for health and health for work objectives.
There's no doubt that's life and work in many respects is life.
And that's kind of another topic.
But try and love what you're doing.
Try and enjoy your job if you don't because if you enjoy your job,
then work is life is an okay thing.
If you hate your job, then work is life is not a good situation to be in.
So try and get into things and do something that you enjoy doing.
And if you don't enjoy it, you know, find some kind of an exit strategy.
But that's another topic.
Going back to this topic is it okay or is it wrong to sacrifice your health and the short term
to accomplish long term work objectives?
And yeah, even in the SEAL teams, we did that all kinds of times.
A lot, whether it was in training or for mission where our priority or our mission or our training,
takes priority over workouts and over eating healthy and over everything.
So there's times where that you're just 100% focused on some kind of mission.
And that's what you're going to do.
And that's okay.
That's what we did in the SEAL teams and that's what everyone does.
And it's, and when you get done with that,
how do you make up for last time?
You do some hard workouts and maybe you go eat super clean or you fast for a little while.
Or whatever it is that get you back on track.
You just get yourself back on track.
What you have to watch out for is a pattern.
A long term pattern where work takes precedent over health for multiple weeks, right?
Multiple weeks and months.
Right?
If you're talking about months, we're in a bad situation.
Like if you go week two weeks where you just were crazy and work,
it was crazy and you know, you know, you know,
you know, your health took a little to went down a couple of notches on the priority.
And a couple of weeks goes by and you cook for them.
I'm glad I've got through that and the the hard season's over or the whatever.
You know, you know, people in the finance world and tax season.
They're just busting their ass for two, three, four straight weeks.
It's really hard.
It's understandable and, you know, retail people around Christmas time.
They're, you know, everyone's got their little sick things.
Real estate people in the springtime and the summer starts rolling around their work.
It's, it's, it's, they're sick, local things.
And that's cool. You work hard for two, three weeks where you just have to get after it.
But when that starts turning into months and in multiple weeks and then months and then
secular months of your health is taking the back seat, we have an issue now.
That being said, there are not too many jobs that consume 23 and a half hours a day of your time.
They're just not that many jobs that do that.
Now what, and what you might be facing here is you might be blaming your job for you being lazy.
That, that can be happening. That's a strong possibility actually.
Because you can make time for a 20 minute workout, right?
20 minute workout, right?
20 minute workout. Like that.
If you get 20 minutes, you get in a shake it out a little bit and you do, you know, a couple hundred
minutes. Go as hard as you can. You just got to work out that took you 10, 15, 20 minutes, right?
Well, yeah, longer than that for me, but yeah, you see what I'm saying, though.
I do, yeah, fully. You do, and then if you can do that, if you sprint, if you do 10
sprints, right? Doesn't take you much time. You do go, go knock out three, four, five sets of pull ups.
Go knock out a couple hundred pull ups. How long does that take?
It doesn't take that long. Right?
You take 15 minutes. You're done. So then maybe at night, you just roll up there.
You grab your kettlebone. You knock out some swings. It takes you seven minutes.
We're not talking about a bunch of times. So are we being lazy?
Because we're not carving out 15, 20 minutes, half an hour.
You know, a lot of people ask me about what the workouts I do when I'm on the road.
A lot of times when I'm on the road, I fly into a city. I get there 11 o'clock at night.
The next time I'm next to am working with a company in eight o'clock in the morning.
And so my schedule is tight. Why am I in the hotel room? The hotel room?
Do you have some sucks for one thing?
And I'm going to bang something out quickly.
You know, it's not going to be an hour workout.
No, it's going to be like 20 minutes sometimes.
Now sometimes if I have a little extra time, maybe I'm not meeting with the company until lunch.
Cool. I'm going to have a nice long workout, of course.
But if it's, I'm due to meet with a CEO for breakfast at seven o'clock.
It's going to be a quick hardcore 12 minute workout.
And that's cool. So you've got to carve that out.
And this is so, you know, make sure that it's the job that's doing this to you and not you that's doing this to you.
Yeah. So if it is your job, truly,
your job is the thing that's making you unhealthy, then you've got to fix it. Now what you have going for you is that company's want you to be healthy.
Right. Companies understand the benefit of having healthy employees, not just from a productivity standpoint,
but from like an insurance viewpoint.
We, if we got a, you know, we've got a health coverage for our employees and all of our employees are sick and and lame and lazy and we're having to pay their medical bills.
And they can't work. It's problematic. So what you do is you step up and you say, hey, you know what, we don't have a health and wellness program. I want to run it.
We need a little gym. Oh, you, it's going to cost money. Yes, it's going to cost money. We're going to save you money and productivity.
I'm going to save you money and insurance. I'm going to write a point paper on that. I'm going to win that one all day long. We're going to, we're going to put a gym in the lounge.
And we're going to put, we're going to put some mats in the donor room. You know what I'm saying? So we're going to, we're going to do it.
Well, I think LinkedIn has a GG to room. You mean LinkedIn? I think I saw a picture of they have a GG to room. Good idea. Yeah, you didn't even have to pay me to work there.
So you got your GG to room. Oh, I remember. Yeah. So get so, so go, you know, step up your company. I can not guarantee your company wants you to be healthy.
So step up, maybe take leadership role and forming the health and wellness program for your company. Get it.
Funny, my brother's company. You know it. Rackmop. He, they don't have a, they don't have a, you know, a mat and obviously in the office.
But yet, yeah, but working. It's funny though. He'll like he'll do this. He'll encourage people to go to GG to, you know, to the point where they have rash guards even.
Yeah, we have a pretty good representation from frag now about the gym. Yeah. You know, I call everyone from frag mom that trains. You know, and I nicknamed them all of them frag mob.
Everyone from frag mob. That's a nice. Oh, that's their actual name.
I mean, frag mob.
I can't even imagine anymore. No, you're name is frag mob.
Yeah. So, but that's good because it becomes this culture that kind of catches on. You know, where, and this is just, you can be kind of anything crossfit or even spin, I don't know, whatever.
But, do you just as kind of good because it's one of those ones that you can kind of come and talk about it and, you know, it's hooked you out. Are you choked me out kind of thing? You can choke your boss if he's there.
Yeah, it's like that kind of stuff. It's real fun.
And they even have like rat, like I said, rash guards, the rash guards like if you work for frag mob, it'll say staff on the back. It'll have like, you know, they do like, and you know, development stuff like that.
So the staff one will be, um, what does it have on the sleeves like digital or circuitry? Yeah. And then the other one says, we'll say security. That's like, you know, friends of the friends or the friends or the friends.
But it's never going to be between the hardware and the software rash guards.
Right, right. That's what I mean. That's exactly what it is. So the soft guys who actually work for frag mob have the software rash guards. That has like circuitry on the design and then the hardware.
Oh, no, sorry, the software is a little zero in one. Yes, the code. Yes, exactly. And the security guys who work anyway, nonetheless, that's kind of.
That's like a good, because that's not really an official program in frag mob or in a company. It's just it's kind of the influential element of the culture, you know, where it's like, and you know, my brother, he, he pushed that, you know, not kind of overtly, I guess, but it's more it was like, you guys have to do this.
Like, hey, you should come down. I'll give you a rash guarding. Okay, cool. And guys, and it was funny. There's a time there's a bunch of frag mob doing there. Just going interesting. But yeah, that helps.
That's not for sure. Now, the thing is, if none of that works, if you if your company is just dragging you down and and you've checked and double checked and triple checked your own discipline or lack of discipline.
And you realize that it's the work that is bringing down your health. In that case, you got to follow the procedure. You got to find an exit strategy. Create an exit strategy.
Save up your money. Line things up. Get the ducks and row in the next queue. Because your health is going to be more important than everything else.
Yeah, been everything else. All that money you could possibly make. If you got a sacrifice a year and a half, two years and you're going to grind it out like an investment bank or the chills up on Wall Street is going to grind for two years.
And their health is going to suffer. But they've got to go on at the end of that. Hey, understood. You sometimes you got to do, but you got to at the end of that two, three years.
If you're not there and you're not where you want to be and you're starting to decline and health, they're going to get some stuff you won't be able to recover from.
So make your make your decision.
Then you call up with an exit strategy and move on. Do something else. Yeah, and health health and even like fitness is.
Is this thing is called systemic versus direct, you know, as far as being beneficial. So exercise is like one of the few things in your little hierarchy of like needs or whatever.
That affects everything else. Like if you if you're unhealthy person versus a healthy person, the healthy person will be better at everything else. He'll be better making money. He'll be better at all relationships.
He'll be better obviously health wise in and of itself. I mean, obviously if you've got some guy that's brilliant.
And really out of shape versus a guy that's an idiot who's in great shape. The brilliant person's probably going to make more money and you do better in the long run. I mean, we're talking. You have to put them on a level in the lecture.
Yeah, you're talking about the same person. Oh, yeah, then for sure for sure.
But the healthier person was going to win.
So and compare that to the directly like people would be like, hey, making money is important. So it's more important than health. But he's thinking, making money doesn't improve your health.
Making money doesn't necessarily improve friendship or romantic relationships necessarily. In fact, a lot of times it damages them a lot of the times health doesn't damage anything. It improves everything. There's not
anything that I can think of anyway that health makes worse. Yeah, or being more fit makes worse get healthy stay healthy. Yeah, stay on the program. You know what?
And it's one of those things to men. Those like working out when you're on the road. That's a big one. Right. It's hard to like get a solid workout on the road because you're busy or whatever.
But there's this is going to sound crazy. But when you think about it's not not crazy, but sound kind of unrealistic where Kate. So this would have been doing recently when we went to New York for the monster and like all these.
Before I go, I'll research due to gyms and fitness gyms where I can work out because like you said the hotel gym is like, if you don't have anything else in you, but you still have time. Okay. Good.
But a research where are the gyms and prepare like, okay, how long is it going to take me to get there, work out, get back all the stuff and then you fit it in your schedule.
And here's the thing, if you don't want to fit in your schedule, then don't work out. Then if then health is not for you then.
But if you're like, oh, you're asking, you know, this kind of question where, you know, is it wrong to sacrifice health and all this stuff? That means you're concerned about health.
Then be concerned about health. You can fit it in.
It's the surprise what you can fit in. Just like you don't have to get that good of a workout, but you're fitting it in.
But here's the thing, you can fit in a good workout. You just gotta make room for that. You got to plan it.
And then the logical went to like, if I'm going to speak somewhere, it had a minimum. I'll do a couple hundred burpees before I go.
When I wake up, that just gets the blood flow and you're ready rocking all.
Yeah.
But at the master, there was no break in the program.
I went to 24 fitness rolled a hard one at hand. So it's in the middle of the master, which wasn't hard necessarily, but there's a lot of roles in there.
And so man, it was, there was no break in the program. But the point is because I knew that that was, I made time exactly right. It was important.
And I don't want to say it's important. Like it's the number one priority. I'm saying it's part of the, the whole, what I'm doing.
If it's not part of what you're doing, then don't be healthy. Then don't make it part of what you're doing.
I vote against you on that one. I say, make time be healthy.
Yeah, I think so too. That's my opinion. But I'm saying it helped you.
I don't exactly. You know what I'm saying? Like, you're saying if I don't have time, my job is so whatever.
Hey, if you straight up, don't have time. Think you don't have time. Help is not for you. You chose everything else over help.
And that's up to you.
I'm going to go ahead and go on and let me hear that most people you can make time.
That's the point. That's my wake up half hour earlier.
Yeah, because you know, you know, when you really don't have time.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. Like one time, I don't know two or three months ago, we were, we came in.
And we skipped jujitsu to record the podcast. And I was like, man, we skipped jujitsu to record the podcast.
Right. It was like, we didn't do that. We weren't going to get out of flight.
And after noon. And we just had to do it.
And so yeah, occasionally that those things happen.
Yeah, so consider that. Right. So it's either skipped jujitsu one day and get the podcast out.
Or don't we could ease, we could have chosen trained jujitsu. Don't do the podcast.
But at that point given all the circumstances, the podcast at one day.
It's keeping jujitsu one day is my part in for that one day because it's not like we're giving up jujitsu completely for this.
It's not that actually holding the line with the podcast exactly right. And that was important that day,
because we're kind of faced with that thing. What do you give up? So what that's the question. What do you give up?
Do you give up watching a movie and room service? Do you give that up? Give that up?
Yes, give that up. Like I said, hey, if you don't have time, I got a hotel.
I don't even turn on the TV. Yeah, I don't even turn on TV because I don't have TV at home.
And so I don't know a year or two ago, I went to some hotel and I've turned on the TV.
And next thing I know, you know an hour and a half went by.
And I was watching some movie from 1986.
Do you think you've got to be kidding me? Turn it off.
You know what I always do? I hang my chalk bag on the TV.
That's my standard operating seizure.
I hang my chalk. Because you know, they're all the thin TVs.
When you travel, when I travel, so you bring your chalk bag.
Yes, I bring chalk bag. I bring sweat bands from my wrist.
Because I sweat. I bring a chalk bag. I bring my little notebook.
I bring a mobility, wad, ball to do some mobility work.
And I bring some one-inch tubular nylon that I use to stretch.
Oh, that's what I bring. You're good to be originally.
Like when we went to the monster, I brought rings with me.
Yes, that's good.
Because I knew I was going to be on a tight timeline and knew it was going to have to,
you know, get some workouts done.
And I traveled a little bit heavier.
Because I normally travel really light, but I had an extra bag.
So then, rings.
No factor. You were there for a while too.
Yeah.
A couple weeks.
Yeah, I was in Austria and then came back to New York and then from New York to Texas.
So there's a road trip.
Yeah.
Thanks, see. And you made it happen.
And you're busier than the normal person in my opinion.
Kind of busy.
Yeah.
But again, man, I think you know how that old saying.
I think I don't know. You might have said,
I don't know where I saw it.
But it's like, there is no free time or spare time or you know,
work that there's just time.
You know, it's one of those things.
Oh, do you like time that is wrong?
That's a wrong.
Yeah.
So it's like time.
So there's no spare time. There's no free time.
There's just life time.
Just time.
Yeah.
So you better just get on it.
So unless you're like Peter a tear,
remember when he was talking about what Peter a tear was talking about.
Like there was no time.
You're just working the whole time.
Like you can't even sleep.
Oh, yeah.
When he's at Med School.
Yeah.
So if you're in that situation,
then that makes sense.
You're not going to be like,
Okay, I'm not doing this part of my Med Med program.
You're pulling on the side of the road to a park to fall asleep for an hour.
Because you had slept the nine days.
Yeah.
So there are exceptions for sure.
But again, like if you're doing room service or you're watching the game
or you're stopping at the bar or doing anything.
I'm not even saying necessarily destructive things.
I'm just saying things that don't aren't conducive to your quote unquote work.
That's keeping you so busy or whatever that are essential.
If you're doing these other things,
then there's where you can make time.
How can one ever have time if you don't take time?
I like it.
Next question.
My wife and kids are quick to anger.
Sometimes it's explosive.
Like the Moab mother of all bombs.
Other times it's a slow grinding war of attrition.
Being a student of your podcast,
I've learned the worst strategy is to directly attack their fortified emotional position.
Seems like this is a good opportunity to employ the flanking maneuver.
How do I effectively flank their anger without appearing weak?
Okay, first of all, flank yourself.
Because that appearing weak thing, that's pretty much in your head.
Really?
Well, generally in your head, and that's the first thing you need to do is that's your ego talking when you don't want to.
When you don't want to.
When they hit you with something that they're angry at,
the thing that's hitting back is ego.
That's what's hitting back.
So first thing you gotta do is okay, I'm gonna check my ego right now.
Because I'm gonna win the long war.
In fact, you have to be careful when you stay calm when everyone else is angry.
You have to actually be careful not to come across as a loof or you're not going to be a good person.
Or you know arrogant.
Yeah, yeah.
When people are getting mad, okay, okay, for instance, if your wife is super mad about something and you show no emotions and you don't come at it all, they get madder.
So that's the right.
Yeah, you don't even care about this.
Yeah, so no, no, so you gotta give a little bit, you know, I'll tell you now.
You know, the little bit of, hey, I get it, right?
But then which one do is absorb them?
Oh, they want to get mad, cool, absorb, take the screaming, give the head nod of understanding in a,
only marginally emotional way that pretty much communicates that, I understand you're mad and I'm listening, and I hear you.
You know, I get it and let them get it out of their system.
Just let them get it out of their system, then let them calm down.
And then after you've given them the time to kind of calm down and settle down.
And I mean, it's longer than you think.
It's longer than you think.
Let them let, let, when you think they're calm, weight, an extra 45 minutes.
If not two hours, probably two hours, because they're not calm.
They just stop screaming, right?
They're not calm.
So, and then what you do is, and then what's to use your kind of take it on yourself, you're going to own it, right?
And you say something like, hey, you know, that thing that made you mad, I want to make sure it doesn't happen again.
You know, what can I do better to make sure that you don't get mad about that, right?
You take, you take ownership of that.
What do I need to do adjust?
And what exactly is it that, that, that, that, that, that frustrated, what is it that frustrated?
What is it that frustrated you, what can I do to stop it?
Maybe it wasn't me, maybe you're mad at the printer, but you know, how can we fix that?
Because I don't want you to, and then you know, so you have that kind of conversation.
And you know, you're going to slide something tactfully, and they're tactfully, because again, you're still dealing with like, you know,
Proposable flare-ups, and there he goes after me.
So, you know, but you say something like, you know, we both know that nobody benefits when people lose their temper, right?
I mean, we got to be careful, you know, no one, it's not, it doesn't do us any good when people lose their temper.
Everyone knows that, right?
So you slide those things in there, you're giving that kind of like,
little, little, mini lecture indirectly about what's happened.
And then when you have other conversations, now we're in just a normal day-to-day thing.
You drop things about temper, you know, you talk about temper, be it?
Well, you know, it's a weakness, and it's no one makes good decisions when they have them.
Then those are temper, everything.
So some of the dumbest things I've ever done was when I love, you know, everyone knows that, but you know,
you say you start sliding those things in there that it's bad for your decision-making.
It's bad for relationships, it's bad for your health, it's bad for life.
And again, you're not directly saying these things. You're subliminally saying,
you know, it's man, I remember one time I lost some of those dumbest things I ever did when I lost my temper.
When I kicked the wall and I broke my toe and I put a hole in the wall and the landlord came.
That's when I hit when I lose my temper.
And you start getting them in the, you're even thinking about it over time.
And this is the thing, it's a long war.
And there's going to be relapses along the way, but you got to just hold the line, keep it steady, absorb, and then flank gently to get them to start self recognizing,
whether at and what their temper does to them.
Temper is crazy.
Yeah, when you see people lose their temper, it's, it's a total loss control.
And it's, it doesn't do anybody any good.
And when you see someone that really loses their temper, you're like,
what a wrong.
Yeah, I'm on.
Yeah.
And when I was a kid, nice to lose my temper.
And at some point I just realized, I forget what it was.
I forget what made me think of it.
Something my dad said to me, there's something about, you know, something along those lines of like,
I'm, you lose your temper. It's like a little baby.
Oh, loss of control.
Okay, so you, when you realized it, that's because of that.
Yeah, it's a dead set to me.
Something along the lines of like, you know, I think he was referring to an athlete or something.
Someone that just had no emotions and how that was impressive.
Yeah.
And I was like, hmm, that is impressive.
Massive control.
Yeah.
One's nothing is going to make me mad.
Doesn't matter what's going on around me.
Yeah.
Yeah, it is like a baby, you know.
Like babies, they cry and they, whatever, because they don't know how to talk.
So if they knew how to talk and control everything, they just be like, hey, I'm cold.
Or hey, I'm hungry.
But they don't know how to talk.
So why do adults go crazy and cry?
Because they're babies.
Because they don't know how to talk.
If they, if they cry for every little thing, their babies.
Yeah, they don't know how to talk.
I said, actually, you know what?
Under any depends, it depends how much control and all these little variables.
But it's like the front part of your brain.
That's a decision making like the conscious like, oh, okay.
I'm going to make this this this conscious decision, right?
Which is the last part of your brain to develop that way.
And it's the conscious decision making.
Get a front, the front, the front, the right.
Or text, you know, something like this.
And it happens and it fully develops around age 25, by the way.
So if you're 24, 23, 22, 21, and all.
And so it puts simply it's like, okay, my actions now,
how do they affect the future, you know.
So in one way or another, it's going to be kind of surrounded on that little premise.
Small little press.
So otherwise you're just going to straight auto mode.
However, you're, however you feel that's going to influence not going to totally control,
but that's the thing that's going to influence your behaviors.
So times of stress, your frontal cortex start to shut down a little bit.
Hunger, shut down a little bit.
Uph, hormonal situations for guys and girls.
Also you lose your temper more.
That's where anger becomes from.
Hanging is one of them, you know, and it's like all these things.
But the loss of like all this stuff where your decisions just aren't that dope.
And so when I say hormonal, like that's why you get right rage.
You know, because like guys are throwing steroids.
That's their hormones are up or girls.
PMS in, it's like a real, you know, pre-menstrual syndrome.
It's like real, their hormones are all.
I don't know one time my wife started when she was pregnant.
She started crying during an AT&T commercial.
Maggulajek.
So no, no, no.
Oh my god, it's wrong with her.
Some of those are kind of sad.
They're emotional.
Nonetheless, so why were you crying during Hawaii Five O'Reilly?
Oh, man.
I'm telling you, they're trying to make it deep, man.
That show you're watching, not easy.
Anyway, nonetheless, it's back to losing your temper and stuff.
It is a weak thing.
So it's kind of obvious, especially from the outside to see that,
but losing your temper is not cool.
And a lot of people, they think it's cool because it feels good.
Yeah, that was good.
And when you're a little kid, you respect it.
You see someone losing your temper?
You scare my gut.
Yeah, how are you?
It's how you're turning into Superman, right?
Yeah, in a way.
It's mean, he's scared.
But right, you're not feared by you look stupid.
Yeah, you look dumb.
Yeah, so that's the message to convey to your kids.
Yeah, losing your temper is stupid.
Yeah, and man, some people there, they,
you could tell they say that stuff with a little bit of pride.
And let's just mean my temper going to be like, my temper is going to get me in trouble.
And they're all like, yeah, you're not proud.
I'm a hothead, man.
That's like, don't mean that should be the guy.
Yeah, I know you, I wish I didn't.
That should be, if you say, I just have a temper,
that should be the equivalent of you saying,
I don't know how to read.
It should be that, hey, nothing wrong with it.
You can get past it and, you know, whatever,
I'm not going to judge you for it, but it's not good.
It's not a good state to be in.
Do you, someone who can't control your temper.
Just like it's not a good state to be in as a grown adult,
to not not to read no judgment, but just solve that problem.
That's it.
Be, if you're having, like, if your kids have a temper,
and they're easy to anger, it's because chances are,
I don't know, everybody, of course, but chances are,
they got it from the parents.
Keep in mind, you're one of those parents.
I'm not saying, I'm not saying that you have a temper.
I'm not saying you don't, but I am saying, sure.
You can't have a temper.
You're wife as a temper.
You got it really, honestly,
evaluate, do I have the temper?
And understand that.
Because the kids, they're just these little seeds of beings.
We're like, hey, how do I act?
I don't know how to act.
I'll act out, you know, just how I'm going to cry.
This is my default.
I'm just going to cry when something's wrong.
So you're saying if the parents have a temper and show that,
and act that way, the kids will learn it.
You're going to learn it.
So there's something like genetic, though.
I, well, maybe I guess it could.
We don't know if it's genetic or not, but there's some,
we know the father has a bad temper, and then the kid has a bad temper.
Yeah, but there's no temper gene.
So what it is is there's a genetic situation for sure that you're more apt
to not be able to control certain parts of, or not not be able to control,
but control less.
You know, certain parts of your brain or chemistry is going to make you lean towards
certain types of behavior, like impulsive behavior or something like that.
There is that for sure.
But again, man, when you're kid, you're just looking for,
how do I act?
I don't know.
I'm growing up.
I don't even know how to act.
So the first thing you're going to look at is the people,
what the authority figures in front of you.
The parents.
If the parents aren't there, who are they looking to?
I don't know the guy next door, the guy in TV, the guy up the street,
the guy in the music video, whoever.
I don't know whoever's doing better than me.
That's it.
So if you're the parent, and you're losing your temper all the time,
kids can lose their temper.
That's how what they're going to learn how to act.
So point there is.
If you lose your temper or if your kids are losing your temper,
we start with yourself because you know the guy in.
You know the guy in there's certain things that's real easy to see when someone else
does it?
Yeah, most things.
But yeah, but it's really, yeah, you simply don't see it.
Sounds like this guy here that asks this question.
He's saying his wife loses his temper.
And that could be where the kid is getting the modeling from.
Right.
And he's saying he doesn't.
Now is there a chance that he does too?
I guess so.
But it sounds like he's pretty together and he's saying,
look, I just need to get him to calm down.
Right.
So yeah.
In this situation, I'd say it's probably the wife who's losing her temper
and then the kid is imitating or modeling.
And then we have this scenario happening.
Yeah.
So what we need to do is explain to everyone in the family that.
It's not good.
We're not losing our temper anymore.
Yeah.
And the reason I say it to is again, I'm not saying he does lose his temper.
But I am saying that it is a possibility that because if let's say
me and your husband and wife and you lose your temper.
I won't just gross.
Yeah.
But we're in a little bit like that.
Just look at me and my wife.
Okay.
If she loses the temper, her temper.
And I'm taking the direct approach, right?
Yeah.
Which I understand now.
I'm going to lose my temper back.
I'm going to go fire.
I'm going to fire with fire.
You raise your voice.
I'm going to raise my voice.
The kids over there in the corner.
How do I act?
That's how I act right there.
That's a possibility.
And kids will become anti-social.
That's the thing.
Goes on.
It's one of the things.
One of the many things.
Anti-social.
I told you about that book called Mind Games.
Small little book.
Forget the author.
It's like pretty clearly and concisely laid out if you have angry issues.
Like what up with that?
It's integrative.
Change my whole life.
Low self-esteem.
Next question.
Unless you want to go on.
No.
Next question.
Okay.
Joko will take tactics to flank slash shift a ferocious analyzer from paralysis to go.
Meaning something over things.
Yeah.
It's over things.
Has the taste of landing and planning and planning and planning?
Well, there's a couple of things here.
The person is above you or below you in the chain of command.
So if they're below you in the chain of command, you explain to them.
You say, look, we don't need perfection.
We're not going to have 100% solution.
We don't have 100% of the information.
That's a good enough solution.
We need to move forward.
Let's execute.
And you know what?
I'll take everything.
Things go wrong.
Don't worry about it.
I'll take responsibility for it.
I'm not going to blame you.
That's a good leader.
So that's what you're going to do if you're there.
Below you in the chain of command.
If they're above you in the chain of command, yes, what?
Same thing.
You're going to tell the same thing like, hey, boss, we don't need perfection here.
Look, boss, we're not going to get all the information.
We need, we're not going to get 100% solution.
We've got a 90% solution.
And let's go for it.
And if things do go wrong, you can blame me.
I don't care.
So boom.
Whether they're above you or below you in the chain of command, you might change your
tact or your furniture a little bit, but it's the same same overall concept.
You've got to get them to understand that we don't need perfection.
We need to move forward.
And the other thing is you explain the cost of not moving.
The cost of staying still, the cost of being reactive and set of proactive, in basically
the cost of not being aggressive.
Because that's what we're talking about as a lack of aggression.
And so what does that look like?
Will you explain to them that the longer we sit, the better position the enemy gets into?
If a longer we wait, the less we know about what is actually happening.
Think about that one.
The more you sit here and you're planning, the less we know what's going on out there.
The things are happening.
They're changing.
They're evolving.
The enemy is maneuvering.
There's developments on the battlefield or in the marketplace and you don't even know
because you're sitting in the planning space.
The longer we wait, the less time we have to recover if something does go wrong.
So if we sit here and plan for 47 days and on the 48th day we start to execute and something
goes wrong, we're not going to make the 50 day mark because we spend all that time planning.
So the longer that you're sitting around, the less time you have to recover and adapt
than adjust.
And the longer that you wait while you're doing planning, the less relevant your plan
actually becomes.
So that's what you need to make people understand.
And then there's people that are just habitual and chronic ferocious analyzers and those
of the people you've got to watch, but you've got to continually just get through their head
that the more we sit, the more the enemy maneuvers.
And if we let them maneuver on us anymore, we're going to get killed.
That's it.
Pretty easy.
It's not easy.
It's a simple concept.
It's hard to get people out of their own heads.
Just like this, like everything else, it's hard for the ferocious analyzer to record
nice themselves.
As that, they think they're doing a good job.
They think they're actually being thorough and you're a wild man, you're a cowboy.
Are you crazy?
No, I'm not crazy.
Every one time my first deployment to Iraq, they said, hey John, this is after I've
been there for a while and they wanted for some reason they wanted to know the minimum
requirements for us to go out on an operation.
And I said, I just need a vicinity of the target and of radio frequency to talk to the
local conventional units there.
And they were like, well, don't you need air support, but you can't say all these other
things, I was like, no, we'll figure it out.
Just send us.
Yeah.
We'll go.
And there was other things that we would do as we'd move to a target.
We'd align things up and we'd be good.
But sometimes people wanted to plan out every last detail.
And that doesn't work.
The details are not going to stay the same.
The things that you're planning on are going to change.
So don't sit there and plan every last detail because it's not going to help you.
Man, that's actually a pretty good plan.
I don't even thought about how you say if you spend too much time planning, you know,
and then you jump in the game all late.
It's like, dang, you have no time to make any adjustments.
Carry out.
You better go perfect because that's all.
That's the one shot you got at it.
Guess what?
It's not going to go perfect because things don't go perfect.
Things are not going to go perfect.
Not going to happen.
No such thing as flawless execution, Dave Burke just wrote an article that was on business
insider.
So what it was, like, for all this execution doesn't happen.
Yeah.
That top gun senior instructor for three years, he knows about flying and he knows how hard
they worked towards flawless execution, but it didn't exist.
The flawless execution was analyzing their mistakes, seeing what they can improve upon.
That was the flawless execution for them.
It wasn't the actual act of flawless execution.
That you know what they had for all this debriefing.
Flawless analyzation of what they did wrong.
Yeah.
It's going to be perfect option.
It doesn't go such thing.
Doesn't happen.
Yeah.
So if you're sitting and planning that, trying to make that happen, it's not going to work
for you.
Yeah.
So don't do it.
Just jump.
Just go.
Next question.
Joko got a question.
He actually wrote that.
Yeah, he did.
He's fully in the game.
He got a question.
How would you do with a team member who tries to take all the responsibility, but cannot
do his good job as others?
I don't know if it's sincere, helpfulness or desire of power.
These are four power.
Ooh.
See, there's a little twist on that one.
Yeah.
That little twist that puts them all on that question right there.
So you got a guy that's trying to take all this responsibility for everything.
And how really is good is he should be?
Do he in that position?
But trying to take responsibility.
And yet the person that's got the question, he doesn't know if it's sincere, trying
to just help out the team or a desire for power.
So is it helpfulness or is it their quest for power?
Where are they coming from?
How do we figure that out?
Well, for one thing, if someone is truly trying to help the team, they will have an open
mind to support and suggestion and help from other people, they'll be open to that.
Because they're just trying to do the best for the team.
If they're trying to take or maintain power, which as we know is driven by ego, there
you don't want help.
And they don't want suggestions from people either.
They're just going to do it my way.
I got this.
No, it's mine.
So that's the difference.
So there's going to be two different ways that I'm going to handle with this situation.
So for a person that's actually trying to help and trying to do a good job, I'm going to
bolster them up.
I love it.
The fact that they have some shortfalls, that's okay.
I'm going to give them some support.
I'm going to put some people on their team that can help cover some of those shortfalls.
I'm going to try and set them up to win and learn and be educated while they are winning.
And if they're humble, which I'm assuming that they are because they have this attitude
that they're trying to help out everyone, then while I'm doing this whole process, of
course, coach them and I'm going to give them suggestions and I'm turning to someone
that can do a good job in that situation.
So that's pretty easy.
You've got somebody that wants to take ownership of your responsibility and they're doing
it for the right reasons.
Boom, let's help them out with support them.
Let's get them training.
Let's get them knowledge and let's get them up to speed.
We've got a upcoming leader.
I dig it.
If it's an ego driven person, and they are maneuvering for the power.
Well, then what I'm going to do is I'm going to let them get humbled by the experience.
Because remember, it's stated that they're not as good as they could be at this job.
They're not particularly good at what they're trying to take control over.
So that's fine.
I'm going to let them get humbled by it.
Now I'm going to assess the rest.
So I'm going to make sure that no one's going to get hurt or no one's going to get killed.
We're not going to fail a mission or in the business world.
Make sure they're not going to lose millions of dollars.
We're not going to suffer.
Come to some kind of a strategic setback.
But I am going to let them fail a little bit and let them see that they're not as good
as they think they are.
I'm going to let them learn about humility.
Right.
Now, if they learn, if they are humbled by that and they realize that they're not as good
as they realize that they're not ready to control everything and they realize that
they need help.
If they learn from it and they don't just cast blame, then they'll become a much better
leader.
You will actually help them by letting them get humbled.
If they just get done and they just cast blame, then we see them fail.
And now we have legitimate reason to say, look, I can't put you in charge.
You just failed.
I can't allow this to happen again.
So that's how I would basically handle that situation.
Now, of course, there's all different kind of gradations of those realities.
And the answer will be somewhat scaled as well.
So, you do that's what you do.
You scale the answer.
Maybe you can first of all, a little bit of help, but you're going to let them stumble a
little bit.
You know, maybe you're not going to give them any help at all.
You're going to fall and fight on their face.
Maybe you're going to bolster them up a lot, but you're still going to talk to them and
say, hey, listen, you need to step back and get more in the weeds on some of the lower
level stuff, because you're not ready to manage this yet.
You know, so it's cool, but that's my basic overall concept of where I would be going with
that.
Do you find that, like, even with the expression extreme ownership or, in this case,
paid with all the responsibility, do you find that not people get confused, but, you know,
yeah, like people will kind of get confused.
You know how you say, okay, take responsibility, because it seems like anyway, from what
I told think I told Anderson with extreme ownership is here.
I like it, I like where I come from.
You take responsibility for the mistakes and the solution.
Yes, that is a dream ownership.
So, and then, but then it, from what I heard, like sometimes when people ask questions,
it'll kind of, but this one's kind of ambiguous, but sometimes people ask it, ask a question
or make a statement comment, whatever, in terms of take responsibility or take ownership
of, like, not of the problems or the solutions, but like before the mission, like, this
is my mission.
Yes, this is my, you can overstep, you can be, you can use too much extreme ownership,
you can say, hey, this is my mission, I'll tell you how to do it.
Now, you know, I'm pushing for me.
No, I'm pushing for me.
You can follow me.
Yep.
And by the way, I'm taking all the credit, too.
And we get back, which is actually equally wrong.
Right.
I will echo, I'm in charge of this, but hey, man, I want you to come up with a good
plan.
I think you've got a great insight.
I think you know the terrain better than me.
Can you come up with a good plan?
And then we get backwards.
If it's a successful mission, I'm like, hey, guys, everyone look what Echo did and I
tell the Command Officer, Echo ran this great operation.
I think he's ready to step up and leadership.
He really did a superb job.
If it fails, what am I doing?
Pointing the finger echo?
No, I'm coming back and saying, hey, boss, here's a mission failure.
These are mistakes I made.
Here's what I did wrong.
Here's what I'm gonna fix next time.
Real symbols.
So would you say, in a nutshell, extreme ownership applies to problems and the solutions
to those problems and that's all.
No, it applies to everything.
It applies to everything because even when I say, hey, Echo, I want you to come
up with a plan for this.
You come back and brief me with a plan.
I still take ownership of the plan.
It's your plan, but I go through it and I say, okay, this looks like a good move.
Hey, Echo.
I'm looking at this right here.
I don't know if this is the best way to execute this.
Right.
I'm not taking ownership of it.
That I'm pulling it away from you, but I'm definitely gonna make sure we win.
That's the thing that drives me crazy sometimes with leaders is they don't realize it,
but they're making excuses.
Because they'll say, oh, you know, I let, I'm decentralized command.
So I can't control everything.
No, actually, you are responsible for everything.
And if I got three teams out there and you're one of the team leaders and I come to you
and say, hey, Echo, here's the plan I want you to execute.
I still have to look at the plan.
I still have to make sure that I agree with what you do and have to make sure you're not
doing something that doesn't make sense.
So I, yes, I do have ownership of the plan.
Yeah.
Absolutely.
Like it's your family members and things.
Yeah.
No, that plan is like it's, I love it like a son.
Yeah, the plan is the plan.
You came up with the plan.
You created it.
It's my grand kit.
Yeah, right.
So it's yours, but I'm still gonna take responsibility and ownership.
Gotcha.
But where people, it's when your ego starts flaring up and I start saying, no, it's my plan.
And where do you, my way?
Yeah, we have issues.
Yeah.
But yeah, the ownership doesn't stop and it just doesn't stop.
When you're in a leadership position, it doesn't stop.
When everything, I put down the chain of command.
It's hard to do.
It's hard on your ego.
For sure.
Yeah.
Because it kind of seems in a way countering to, I guess if you understand the,
the little subtle dynamics of it because you know how like, if the plan fails, boom, that's
one, the extreme ownership is really gonna show it's it.
But if it's the super successful flawless plan, it doesn't, it's more covert.
It's more internal because you gotta give the credit for everyone else.
Everyone will, will sit there and go, oh, Jocco's, you know, he's, he's given the credit
to echo for the operation.
You, we won't show up as extreme ownership.
For sure.
It'll be harder to see.
Yeah.
And people will say, dang, people know that I was in charge, right?
They don't have me over all of this.
So I'm still gonna get some credit.
Right.
It's more covert.
But it's way more covert.
And it's better.
It's better.
Right.
That's the hard thing.
And they say, that's what's so hard for people to realize.
They want so bad to raise their hand and say, yes, it was me, it was my, it was my operation.
But it doesn't help you.
It doesn't help you.
It feels good for like half a second.
And then you realize you just deflated yourself.
Is that kind of like when you make a donation to charity, but you want like everyone
to know that you did it.
It's kind of like that.
Yeah, I guess it's similar to that.
Similar concept, right?
Like in a weird kind of profound way.
Thanks question.
I guess we'll just move on to next question.
That's the profoundness of your last statement.
Just, you know, on a certain level, it's the same thing.
Because you did something good, you know, or you are something good or whatever.
But it's like saying, I'm the most humble guy in the world.
You know, I'm just super down here.
Here's the other thing about this.
When I give you the credit for success, not only do I win covertly in that you look
in me and go, man, he gave me a couple corrections.
That worked critical of this operation.
And he's not even saying anything.
So you have even more respect for me, which means you're going to work harder for me in
the future.
You're going to do even more and we're going to look even better.
So I am going to ultimately win because my team is going to be kicking so much ass all
over the globe.
And people are saying, wow, you know, these guys are just winning everywhere they go.
And so it's very, very positive.
Whereas if I took that credit from you on that first stop operation and I took it from you,
how hard are you working on that next one?
Not as hard.
You know, maybe you're a great guy.
Maybe you're a great guy.
But you're just a great guy, but you're still not going to go that extra little edge.
You're not going to do it because you're not going to get credit and you're not going
to do it because you don't care that much about making me look good.
As you would if I was taking care of you, there's nothing better than having guys that
you're taking care of.
They know you're taking care of them.
And they're going to do anything for you.
But they're going to do anything.
And you'll do anything for them.
It's a mutual thing.
It's real.
It's a real thing.
It's like they can get the keeps on getting ready.
It is.
It's powerful too.
That's why the book's been so popular.
And it's why the book's been so popular because when you break it down and people see what
it does, they realize how powerful it is.
And it's also another reason that the book is so popular is because we put it in a very
clear way.
And it's easier to understand.
It doesn't make it easier to execute, but it makes it easier to understand.
For sure.
Yeah.
It's crazy too.
And someone said, I might have been someone at the master.
I don't know.
Could have very little been on Twitter.
But, oh, someone was saying how it's so interesting.
They started to realize that it applies to their relationship with their husband or
wife.
I appreciate that.
And I always kind of look at all this stuff as primarily that.
Because I mean, who do I?
Especially now, who do I work with?
You.
Yeah.
I don't have to like, I don't go through these extreme ownership struggles.
You know, with you.
So it's more, you know.
So to me, everything I've just applied is to like your relationship with your wife.
My wife.
Whatever.
So and it all translates.
All of it.
It does.
You take ownership of stuff.
It's when you take ownership of stuff, then you can control the outcome.
Yeah, it's crazy.
No, no, no, no, you don't get anywhere.
Yeah.
And that, you know, you have a, I don't know, disagreement, any, any ripples in the water
where the instinct is to point fingers, you know.
But when you even know what other person is really in the grand scheme of things, you're
both to blame.
I know that.
But they do have their huge role in the issue.
Yeah.
Don't do that.
Don't even pay attention to that.
All you've got to do is shine the light on your own things and say, don't.
I mean, and, how you say, don't be, don't like be hard in yourself, you know, like
that kind of like the kind of like I suck.
I suck.
It's not that.
It's like what I do.
What I do.
This is what I do.
Exactly right.
So what's interesting is, and you said it from the beginning, but it is interesting to just
watch it play out.
So it's almost fun, but it's more just real interesting where when you do it and you just
keep doing it, you always do it.
That's the thing.
You just watch how the other person just changes.
Yeah.
And just becomes kind of the same thing.
And before you know it, like the ripples in the water are pretty much gone.
Yeah.
And what's you need someone in the team has got to start doing it.
That's one of the hardest things.
Yeah.
Occasionally, we'll work with a company where everyone's like, oh, yeah, extreme ownership.
No one is actually doing it.
When no one is actually doing it, and all they're saying is like, I wish that guy
you had extreme ownership.
And that guy should have extreme ownership.
And I don't see anyone else taking ownership.
And hey, I haven't seen anyone else taking ownership.
Therefore, how can I take ownership?
You know, we send out when we work with a company, we'll send out surveys, you know,
pre-class surveys, and then post, because we'll do a number of sessions.
So we'll send out to the leadership team that we're working with, how's it going?
And we'll send out a week later, two weeks later, three weeks later, four weeks later.
Sometimes when you get a team where no one is taking ownership, and literally you hear
people say, well, the boss isn't taking ownership.
So how can I take ownership?
If the boss isn't even taking ownership, they don't realize that when your boss isn't
taking ownership, it is an opportunity for you to take ownership and to excel and to gain
respect and trust and power and power, which is a good thing because you're doing things
for the good of the team.
So you want to have power.
But I want to have power.
When I'm a team leader, I absolutely want to have power.
And the reason I want to have power, so I can distribute it properly amongst my team.
And I can utilize it so we can be successful in our mission.
So when you have your CEO isn't taking ownership, awesome.
I'm going to take ownership and when the rest, if the CEO is truly not taking ownership,
and I do, everyone else looks at me and they start to elevate my position.
The CEO becomes irrelevant because all he's doing is sitting around point fingers.
I'm taking ownership of things and solving them.
I'm actually going to end up in a superior position.
Now, I might not get promoted to CEO today or tomorrow or in two years.
But when this information gets back to the board or to the directors or whoever, they realize
that there's one person that's mutually respected by everybody and that's you because you
took ownership.
And when you take ownership, you solve problems.
And when you solve problems, you win.
But somebody has got to start it.
And it's hard.
Sometimes in some situations, you get the, what's that?
Where did you like the caustic environment?
Right, toxic.
Invinement, where everyone's just so, so defensive about everything.
And it's difficult.
Those are the difficult situations to work with.
You and all it takes is the transition of one human, one person in that team to step up
and say, you know what?
This stuff that's going wrong is my fault.
CEO's don't worry about him.
He's got enough problems.
He's got to deal with the, he's got to deal with the shareholders meeting.
We don't, we need to protect him.
Yeah.
You know what?
This is my fault that this happens and here's what we're going to do to fix it.
Here's what I'm going to do.
And that just changes the attitudes.
And of course, you're going to have two or three people in that defensive toxic environment
that are going to look at him.
Go, yeah, this is right.
It is your fault.
You know what you say to that?
Yes.
You're right.
It is.
It is my fault.
And here's what I'm going to do.
You need to change.
But it's hard to be that person to take that first step.
And then you got to keep that going.
But again, man, after a little bit, you see the guy next to you.
He's starting to do it.
Then the guy next to you.
No, it's in extreme ownership.
The book, it's pointed out.
But it's not super crystal clear that when I was taking blame for the blue on blue that happened
everyone else was too.
You know, those guys were saying, hey, it was my fault.
I did this.
It was my fault.
And that was because that wasn't the first time these guys had seen or heard ownership.
You know, when we were going through training and something was screwed up, I'd be like, hey,
this is my fault.
That's what it is.
And so everyone had that really good attitude.
Yeah.
So that happens in the company.
So what you're saying, it does.
That's one of the best things about this idea, this principle of extreme ownership
is it spreads throughout the company.
And will you get people on the team that will not take ownership of things?
Yes, of course you will.
You will get that person.
And eventually they will either leave.
Or you will fire them.
One of the two things will happen because when you have a person, you got the whole
team is going nuts.
My fault.
And eventually everyone's, oh, you, oh, that's not your responsibility.
Cool.
I'll take that.
Oh, echo, you can't handle that.
That's not your fault.
Okay, then I'll take it and fix it.
Oh, echo, you can't handle that either.
It's not your fault.
Okay, I'll take that and fix it.
Eventually you don't have a job anymore.
So if you want to take ownership of things, including problems, I will take ownership
of all them and I'll eventually take your job in your world and it'll be mine.
It's phased right out.
It's phased you right out.
Like you weren't even there.
So it's going to happen.
So yes, it's a powerful, powerful tool.
And the other thing is, you see, like you see politicians do it all the time.
They don't take ownership when they make a mistake.
And when they do, it's sort of this lip service of, it was my fault.
It was my fault that this happened.
But, right, right, right, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah,
and all anyone hears is blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
And as soon as you say but, and then you make a bunch of excuses that's all anybody hears.
And there's just, it's so weak.
It's so weak to do that.
And it sounds, when you like you said, when you get used to hearing it, when you get used
to hearing people take ownership of things, when somebody doesn't, it sounds like Satan
is screaming out of their mouth and just horrible.
It sounds awful.
It's like a, it's like a cacophony of this.
Hey, you just sickness, right?
That's what it is.
Yeah, it stands out for sure.
You know, when we got the moster, it's like, I was talking about how when you start
taking ownership of things.
When you start having this attitude, when you feel yourself about to make a mistake
of it, and so I'm going to blame on someone.
Like you feel like you're just going to throw up in your mouth.
I think it's like your, it's like vomit is coming out of your mouth.
And then you just throw it back down.
Because you don't want to let that puke out onto the floor.
And that everyone see it.
Yep, it's not allowed.
That's all it is when you blame everyone else.
It's all it is.
It happens all the time and it's so, it's, it's, it's, it's like the other thing I
talk about with, with stepping back and how you step back off the line and how much visibility
you have.
As soon as you step back off the firing line, as soon as you just elevate yourself six inches
above what's happening, it's the same thing.
When you start to take ownership, it's like the change.
It's just this little change.
But it just completely changes the dynamic of what is going on in your business and in
your life in your life.
Because it's the same thing in life when people are blaming everyone else.
They're blaming the market and their blame in their parents and their blame in the debt
that they built up and they're blaming the car that broke their blaming everything else
that's going on.
Yep.
And when you, when all you, and everything, when nothing is your fault, what are you going
to fix?
If you're not going to fix anything.
Where does it go?
Okay.
These are some mistakes that I made.
And here's what I'm going to do to fix them.
That's the paradigm change and that's where you start getting on the right path.
The muster, your line, at the muster.
I included it in the video.
Favorite line, I think.
Says, sure, I'll take the blame and I don't care.
I have a mission to accomplish and I gotta get the problem solved.
Yeah.
That's what it was.
That's part of my opinion.
Yeah, I will take the blame and I don't care.
I don't care.
Bring it.
Jocco.
We got time for one more.
Yes.
I think we do.
Jocco on the Joe Rogan experience ever last from House of Pain was on.
Last was explaining how it wasn't in shape and Joe played the good video form.
Ever last said it is inspiring but it didn't always work.
And the example he gave was a sick daughter who had lung disease that the doctors can't
explain.
I wondered the same thing.
How was a sick child?
Good.
You know, I saw that episode as well and it's definitely a...
hard question.
And actually to quote a song, a great song, by Ever last.
And I haven't walked a mile in his shoes and I've been extremely lucky and blessed with
the health of my family, my wife and my children and I am so thankful for that.
But I have been around disease and I have been around death and of course to say there is
something good about death and disease is impossible to do to hell with disease to hell with
cancer and ALS and heart disease and all the rest of them.
To hell with them all and death to hell with death.
I have nothing good to say about disease or death curse them both.
But then what is that where I'm supposed to focus?
Am I too latch on to death and disease and ride with them down to the depths of despair?
Let's say no.
I will not ride with them.
I will not go down their evil path.
Instead, because I cannot find good in their vile darkness, the vile darkness of disease
and of death, I will not feed their fire.
I won't feed their egos instead.
I'm going to look elsewhere.
I will look to life and light and I will find good in those places.
I'll find good in every moment I get.
I'll find good in every breath.
I'll find good making memories and holding them dear.
I'll find good in knowing that I will learn from this horrible experience.
At everything that I'm going through all the pain and suffering and darkness, it'll make
the light brighter and stronger and more powerful.
More powerful than disease and more powerful than death.
So cry and scream and shake your fists at the sky and curse death and curse disease and
shout to the world that life isn't fair.
And that this is not deserved.
Not for me, not for my child, not for my friend, my spouse, my brother, my sister.
Not for anyone.
And then book up and breathe and all that darkness and all that evil.
Let it all go.
And when it creeps back again, let it go again.
Let it go.
I'm looking forward toward the light, toward life, toward the future.
And of the past, let the memories, the sacred memories let those flourish in grow.
And expunge the darkness from your world and replace it all with good.
And I think that's all I've got for tonight.
The Ruffling.
Yeah, I think it's like, I think that that, like that outlook on it is important because
that's not just easy to do, especially man, and me, probably I've been lucky.
My daughter had a staff infection in her lymph nodes in the hospital for a week, and after
them like that.
And you have the viewpoint, you're lucky that that happened.
When you go to a children's ward and you see kids that are just suffering from horrible
diseases, it's awful.
You feel lucky.
Exactly as you should.
They were lucky to have this.
And in that moment when we're in the hospital, you're scared, you're sad, scared for them.
But I think that just even hearing that is like, it does help.
Yeah, and it's one of the things that when you talk about the reaction you have and the
fact that it's okay to like scream and shake your fist at the sky that's okay for
that.
And then I'm saying that you've got to let it go, but at the same time, everyone's
got to realize that like you let it go, it's coming back.
It's coming back and it'll sneak up on you again.
And then you kind of do it again.
You've got to go through that, you've got to scream and curse the evil that it is.
And then you've got to let it go again and you're going to go through that cycle over and
over again.
But what you can't do is you can't not go through the cycle, you can't just get trapped
in the screaming and the suffering and the pain.
You can't get trapped there and it's really hard.
And I noticed that when I had my friends get killed overseas, I realized when we'd
be home and like everything would be normal, like maybe it would be out having some beers
with the boys or we'd be doing something and all of a sudden like you just get hit with
this wave of sadness.
And it would kind of just almost instantly I'd be like breaking down a bit, like ready
to cry or crying.
And then three minutes later, I'm like out of it, you know, I just had to get rid of it.
I just had to explain this sadness.
But what you can't do is you just can't get caught in those cycles and I think that's
what happens to people and again.
I haven't walked a mile in those shoes.
But what I have seen is I know that it's hard.
I know that it's hard breaking, but you can't let it break everything.
You have to try and hold it together.
Yeah, it's like part of the going through, I know this on low level, I guess I understand
it's like a little bit.
Part of the feeling that you get is like, what do I do?
I feel like I can't do anything and then that provides these feelings, you know.
But if you start to understand what it is that you do have to do and one of those things
is essentially like understand it that yeah, it's going on.
Don't try to block it or escape, do some escapeous activity or whatever.
Just know and understand that it's going on and then on top of that, on top of it, your job
is to be strong, you know.
You know, that's another thing that I've noticed, especially in it happens with anybody,
but with some of my seal friends that have been in these horrible situations is they're
alpha guys that are used to being in control of everything and used to being able to control
the outcome and you can't control the outcome.
And then what do you do?
Well, it's like we learned from Charlie Plum, it's like we learned from Bill Reader.
You can't control that thing.
The only thing you can control is your own attitude, your own view of what's happening.
And if you control your attitude and you make your attitude the best possible attitude
it can be, that's the best you're going to do.
And again, I wish there was some, I don't have some miracle solution to these situations.
No one does if we had the miracle, these problems wouldn't happen.
These horrible things wouldn't happen.
So what can we actually control?
Well, what we'll keep, control is our own view of it, our own assessment, our own attitude.
And that sounds such like a trite word, but our own attitude of what's happening and
make that as good as we can.
And are there going to be points where your attitude turns completely dark and negative
of course there are?
How can you not?
And don't let it be permanent.
Don't let it be permanent for the sake of the situation, for the sake of the person you
care about.
They don't want you to live like that.
So don't, and again, it's going to be sick, sickle curve from what I've seen, it's going
to be cyclical in nature.
The way it happens, the way people deal with these horrible emotions is they go down and
they come up and then they go down and they come up and when they go down, when your emotions
go down and when you get dragged into the mindset of loss, then I think the best thing to
do is just embrace it.
Grab it and say, yeah, like I said, shake your fist at the sky and scream.
And then let it out, get it out and then pick it back up and say to yourself, okay, that
was horrible.
That's darkness, that's evil, that I couldn't control what can I control and how can
I have the best possible view and what can I learn from all this that's going to make
me a better person with a better life to live the best I can in their memories.
You didn't, man, man, man, man when you're in the situation, especially with work,
you know, where your daughter's like, you know, in the hospital or whatever, and you're
like, yeah, I haven't worked out this whole week.
Yeah.
It's like who cares about work out to your daughters in the hospital?
You know, you didn't make it to your daughter.
You don't care about your daughter anymore.
You just care about this one thing, you know.
But again, just like how you said, it's like, so it's like this big burden in life.
Because really, you know, a lot of time your kids are like, all you have really, it feels
like.
So if you don't have them, who cares about your daughter?
Who cares about working out?
I don't have anything.
You know, there's no reason to even do them really.
But aside from the fact is, there is more like two-year life.
And in fact, the more your whole life beside them is for them, you know.
So you gotta keep that.
I think.
Yeah, no doubt.
Yeah.
And I think that's always an important thing to remember is that,
if you surrender to all that bad evil darkness, that's the legacy, that's the example,
that's what you're showing.
As opposed to showing the legacy and showing the example of not giving up, of moving forward,
of driving on and doing the best you can with life and with the things that are good.
And again, having the attitude to control the things you can control and put them in the best possible light that you can.
Yeah, and it's a spectrum, you know.
I mean, it kind of puts into perspective in my opinion.
Why you should do the best you can when things are going good.
Yeah.
Because they're not always going to go good.
Just my opinion.
Anyway, speaking of doing the best you can, you look, working out, we know, obvious,
obvious, workout.
Work out hard too.
You know, I mean, maybe not every single day working out hard, but work out hard.
When you do work out hard, you might need some supplementation.
I think I wasn't a supplement guy.
I wasn't before.
You know this, right?
Right.
I might have mentioned it.
Everyone else.
But now I am a supplement guy.
Happy to say, not the kind of supplement guy who's like, hey, take this power gainer.
Hey, what kind of protein powder you take, but even though I'm not against protein powder,
I don't take in.
But nonetheless, you know what I'm talking about.
Grill oil.
I'm going to say to my father and law is named his Ross.
I'm sorry for not heating all of you.
Heading his just advice.
Can you heat advice or is it just warning advice?
Okay.
So you can heat warnings and advice.
I should have heated Ross's advice.
My father and law.
About to grill oil.
Eventually, Jocca turned me back onto it or further onto it.
So I'm on it now.
I think, um, we have it.
Literally on it on it.
Con intended.
Yeah.
On it is the company if you didn't know already.
I get Jocca gets krill oil from on it on it.
If you want 10% off all these supplements, which are what?
Shroom tech, case room tech, good for oxygen uptake is what it is.
So when you're doing these hardcore metcons, jiu-jitsu, your body takes up the oxygen
easier more efficiently.
Quarter steps, mushroom.
Just some science for you right there.
Strong bone that helped me.
I had this, um, and I kind of wanted to report this before, but I want to take too much
time.
And the jiu-jitsu still kind of out on it.
But so I had this tendonitis kind of situation.
And it's weird.
It wasn't in like a normal place.
Like in your elbow, it was in my deltoid muscle.
Where it inserts into the humorous bone, which is your bone under your bicep.
And it was like tendonitis.
And it's like, you know the kind of like, I'm not injured.
I'm not out, but I warm up more and rub on it.
You know all this stuff.
I'm not going to take days off if I'm not injured.
So Brad, this thing wasn't going to get better.
That's the thing about tendonitis.
Like if you keep lifting hard on it, it just simply won't go away.
It's the whole reason that's tendonitis because you're lifting hard on it.
You know?
And Brad, this thing's not going away.
I'm just going to have to live with it or wait for, you know, the time where I don't
know how to skip workouts, whatever.
But I'm on the strong bone.
I'm like, I'm like, I'm strong bone.
Let's see what up.
You know, do your thing.
I'm not saying it was because of the strong bone, but nonetheless, the tendonitis, it's not
completely gone.
I'm beyond the studio, but it's pretty much gone.
I'm warming up normal.
I'm a believer of the strong bone.
Thanks for turning me on to that.
Check.
Jockle.
You know what?
Going there.
There's a lot of good stuff for a lot of good things from supplements and this workout
stuff on there too.
So I already had weights and a gym membership.
But when you go on there, you see the stuff that they have, you're going to get some
of that too.
Not normal, like kettlebells, you know, there's all the cool ones.
And there's info too on this stuff.
I understand that a lot of people, a lot of us, we want more info than just, oh, Jockle
takes it.
So I'm going to take it.
Some of us are like that.
Anyway, we need more info.
So there's info on the website.
Be careful, you can get stuck on there because it's real interesting and in depth, by the way.
So just be careful with that.
Anyway, on it.com slash Jockle.
I recommend the krill oil.
Big time.
To me, if you're not on the krill oil, you're behind.
You're like a good one to two steps behind.
Like steps, steps.
Not like a half step.
Like your behind.
If I had a twin brother, which I do, you give us a five year period to your period.
I'm on krill oil.
He's not on krill oil.
We do the same exact workout program, same lifestyle.
I'm way ahead of him.
Where ahead of him.
When we're functional.
This is factual.
This is my hypothesis.
Okay.
Is J.
I don't, yeah, he's on krill oil, but he don't have that same.
He doesn't get after it physically.
As much as I do.
So it's hard to have that for a basis for comparison for the krill oil.
Nonetheless, good stuff on there.
The good thing about on it, I can say this with pretty much absolutely certainty at this
point, is that it's the good one.
It's good stuff because supplements in general.
I don't want to mention any store names, but when you go in the meathead, buddy builder
store, a lot of those supplements are their whack.
They just have sparkly labels and stuff in their junk.
On it is not like that.
Get 10% off.
If you want 10% off, go on it.com slash jockel.
That's a good way to support this podcast as well.
Another good way to support my opinion.
What's interesting is get your review books on here and sometimes actually a lot of times
when you have the guests, you actually have their book and you read their book to them.
Yeah, which is like a, with a really, that was, and I think I'm probably talked about this.
But when we had jodimitic, this is the first time it happened.
And jodi came on and you know, I had this book and I was like, okay, well, should I have
him read this or should I read this or I just wasn't quite sure.
And it seemed like the common sense answer would be jodi read this section of your book.
Right?
I was kind of like the common sense answer and then you could talk about it.
And for some reason, my gut told me, don't know.
Jockel read it.
I read it.
Yeah.
Right.
And as soon as we got, you know, probably, I don't know halfway through it.
What he said, you know, something like man here and you read this is like crazy.
Yeah.
And it's true when you hear someone else read something to you, it's different.
It's different.
So that's what I've done every time since, you know, when we had Colonel read her
on here and he said the same thing.
It's the same thing.
No, it's hard when he's like, he's saying the most unemotional way.
He's like, when you're reading this to me, it's extremely emotional for me to hear.
You know, but it's in and same thing with Captain Plum, you know, same thing.
And man, you know, yeah.
Yeah.
So it's really interesting.
The way that works.
And it's definitely it's unbelievable to have the author sitting there and to have my spin.
Yeah.
Because that's what it is, right?
It's the way I hear it.
And for them to hear the way I hear it, it hits them from a different angle.
Yeah.
Right.
So I think that's where the interesting, powerful part comes from.
And it's very interesting.
And essentially, you know, watch it.
Because, you know, you're a little bit different than a typical person just reading a book.
You know, so you really get the, to me is what it feels like is like, that's kind
of how the book is supposed to feel.
You know, like when you read it, I would ever.
So, you know, the point is like, I think a lot of people feel that.
So, you know, they say, oh, I want to go get this book.
But they're like, oh, what was that book?
And I kind of rewind it.
So anyway, you don't have to do that.
Just go on our website, talk aboutcast.com.
There's a section on the top books.
Boom.
There they are.
All the books by episode.
Boom.
You can get them.
And when you buy your books through there, support the podcast as well.
So boom.
Double, double.
Edge.
Double gravitational.
Double.
It looks like it's a two-prong.
Now what if you just hear what if you weren't getting a book, you were getting like duct tape?
Anything.
Yeah.
So that's the thing.
Yeah, it's there.
Our Amazon click through situations.
So yeah, even if before you do your shopping, boom, just click through.
We've got banners, Amazon manners all up on there.
Click there.
But most people, they do the books.
You know, but yeah, if you're doing your shopping as well, do you see that?
You look at golf clubs.
Golf clubs, whatever you like.
You look at cameras.
Some people don't seem pretty cool.
I take a high dollar items, which is very impactful.
And in the low ticket items, low or cost items, you might not think it's a big deal.
But then when a bunch of people do it, it is a big deal.
And it's very, very helpful.
Yeah.
To the podcast.
Yep.
Good way to support the Amazon click through.
Boom.
Also, good way to support this podcast is to subscribe.
Seems obvious.
I know.
But you know, if you haven't subscribed on iTunes, Google Play, Stitcher.
What's the other one that I keep missing?
I don't know.
Hey man, whatever podcast.
Those are my favorites that I post.
Well, I'm supposed to say something about SoundCloud.
I got to look into it.
I don't think that that's a subscribe podcast situation.
I don't know.
They're just audio.
I don't know either, especially, even say anything.
But nonetheless, I look into it.
If in fact, people are committed to the sound, cloud situation.
Anyway, subscribe if you haven't already.
Also YouTube.
If you want or are interested in the video version of this podcast, it's been on their
sense number seven.
I think seven was.
Was the first video episode we did?
The other ones are on there, but they're just audio with the picture of your head.
Not in your head.
Yeah, that's up in the spotlight.
It's face it.
But yeah, if you're interested in that, go into YouTube.
The two videos from back then, I do.
Kind of.
I'm so bummed out.
We don't have it.
Yeah, the closest you have is like a picture of me trying to, what was that?
All is the app.
Apparoscope.
Yeah, yeah.
That's one we did live on.
Paroscope.
We tried.
No, we did.
We did it live on.
Paroscope.
Huh.
Yeah.
That's the last video.
I know.
Nonetheless, video, that's the point there.
If you want to see, you know, I guess what we look like, if you don't know, I feel like
the guess.
That's where the value comes in.
For like the sea of like the gas.
Right.
The hero.
Yeah.
Right.
That's a good one too, because he's like his story, man.
It's fun.
He acts things out a little bit as he sits.
Yeah.
But in this real mellow kind of nonchalant badass way, you know?
That's real good.
But yeah, YouTube, subscribe to that one.
If you like also, yeah, it's the video version of the podcast.
Yes.
But I will take a little excerpts and we'll post those as well.
So you can, you know, if you're like, if you're into sharing little lessons with your
friends or coworkers, whatever you can do that.
So you don't have to share the whole podcast.
I'll put some other stuff on their interesting stuff.
I think we'll think of some other stuff.
Just in relation to it.
We've been spitballing about some stuff.
Anyway, if you want to see what that is, yeah, going YouTube, it's not like YouTube
costs money or does it?
No, it doesn't.
It's free.
YouTube read costs money.
Yeah.
We're not dealing with YouTube read.
We're not doing it.
No, no, no, no.
Charge for content.
No, no, no, we're not going to do that.
No, no, no.
But I was thinking about getting YouTube read.
Oh, right.
Yeah, that's a whole other thing for sure.
But yeah, YouTube subscribe.
You're going to support that way.
That's cool.
Also, Jocco has a store.
It's called JoccoStore.
JoccoStore.com.
So this keeps forgetting everybody's name, but very clever guy.
So yeah, this was like, and then I went through it.
I was like, dang, I'm so bad.
I was like, oh, it's not a high coup.
Because you wasted the JoccoStore.
Yeah.
So why don't you change it?
So it's a high coup.
Because it might, yeah, I guess.
Okay, here we go.
Also, Jocco has a store.
It's called the JoccoStore.
JoccoStore.com.
Boom, there's a high coup.
Then the last JoccoStore.com, that's where you can get.
If you want shirts, rash cards, who it is?
Some patches, velcro, regulation size, and color.
Some women stuff on there.
Anyway, the point there is, if you like t-shirts, you want to represent, get a shirt.
Boom, good support.
They're good shirts, too.
They're not the free thing.
Put on, get after t-shirt.
Yeah.
Do you get a little bit?
Yeah, you want to get after it more.
And actually, that actually sounds kind of funny.
But when you think about it, it's super obvious.
So like, you know, like, I mean, it's a litter, it's a litterer.
Literature.
Thing.
There's a literature thing.
It's called something.
It's called something like the dressing of the warrior.
Yeah, yeah.
And you'll see in movies, they do movies.
We should have got putting his boots on.
And his gear on and putting his sword and his picking up his shield.
That's dawning his helmet.
They do it everywhere from night movies to gladiator movies to soldier movies in the modern
day.
You'll see these scenes while they do it in literature, too.
So there's a little something that there's a little reality that like, I'll tell you
what used to get me was flipping down, so night vision goggles, you wear them on your
helmet.
And they flip up when the lights are on when you're, you know, you're getting ready to
go.
Yeah.
It flipped down your nods and for me, like that was just game so game on.
It's so game on when you flip down those nods.
And so when we even got back from my last deployment, I'm working training and we'd
go, we'd still be on night vision, we'd go out at night to observe the troops and run the
opposing forces and all that.
But I get out on the target area and flip down my nods and I'd go in a full combat mode.
It's just so good.
So I think sometimes you put on the gear.
You sort of feel like something.
Yeah.
Well, I think it was gladiator that movie when they're like, I don't know, it's like the
emperor or something came up.
And then there was like the small act of defiance from the gladiator guy and that all the guards
behind them, they all flipped down the thing and boom, we're ready to go real quick.
I think it's gladiator probably might have been something else.
Nonetheless, yeah, the modern version of that right with these like, and it did happen
to me when the, with the first shirts came in, the dislinicals freedom.
I was like, oh, the shirts are in that put it on and I wanted to like go work out in it.
You know, and they make sense when you get a new rash guard is like, where you get a
new gear, something like, oh, can't wait to go practice in my new geek kind of thing.
One of the little kids get new shoes.
Yeah, they got to get your right faster.
Yeah, and football, one we split in, pop Warner football.
We'd get the new shoes for the season.
I can't wait to go to practice practice super hard.
And so it sucks.
Especially as a little kid, but you just want to when you get that new stuff, nonetheless.
So like I said, jockels door.com.
Get yourself a new shirt.
You get the one that says get after it.
Guess what you're going to really want to do.
Get after it.
Some other ones on there.
Pretty cool.
I think.
And the good, their quality shirts.
That's in my opinion.
That's even more important than what it says on them.
Because they're wearable.
I can print like, yeah, jockels cool saying, so on a junk shirt.
You wear it one time you're like, all right, you know, maybe I'll wear that again.
But it's not very wearable.
I don't look that good in it.
It's not the case with these ones.
These ones look good.
I've had multiple people say it's my favorite shirt to wear.
Because I look good in that kind of occasion with the first round of travel mugs.
The silver ones.
Oh, yeah.
Like they were not as high quality as what we went to.
Yeah.
They said, they said, just put in cool freedom.
In the silver mugs, they said, just put in cool freedom.
They looked pretty cool.
But we needed higher quality.
Yeah.
So yeah, essentially the same thing.
You get the mug.
You're like cool.
I can't even try again.
This is going to be a whole cup covered straight up.
It did with me.
And I didn't even expect that.
But yeah, 30 ounces.
And if it's in your cup holder in your car, too.
What's the black on black?
Black on black on black.
Dispunicles freedom.
No one can see it except for you.
Well, the owner.
No, you can see it.
Here's a good thing about it.
It's black.
It's easy to see.
Look at it.
It's black.
It's not shiny.
It's shiny black.
And then yeah, then the logo and stuff is shiny black.
So people have to look a little extra hard to see it.
Yeah.
But there's a subtle T2 at that.
It's powerful.
It's for you.
It looks dope.
They called it murdered out.
And the car is black with black ribs.
You know what?
It looks good.
And it's double insulated.
It's that double insulated stuff.
What is called?
Yeah.
You put ice water in there.
You leave it overnight.
Next morning, still you still have ice water.
Even if it's a hot night.
Even if it's a hot day outside.
It's amazing.
I love my name, my car.
You know, you go into it.
Where did I go?
Your grocery store?
No.
You spend a lot of time in the grocery store.
I was coming back from somewhere, left it in my car.
With it, it was just ice.
I drank all the water.
And left it in my car.
It came out later that evening.
But I still have a car.
That's it.
It's amazing.
It's a miracle.
Anyway, those are good high quality.
PPA free.
All that stuff.
Anyway, drop us a start.com if you didn't know already.
Also, good way to support yourself and this podcast.
By happens.
It is psychological warfare is what it's called.
If you know what that is, it's an album with tracks of Jockel telling you how to get
through your moments of weakness in the event of you having a moment of weakness, getting
up early, procrastinating, even being created.
It's like for everything.
Being creative.
Like how can you get talked out of writer's block?
How can you get talked out of that?
It's weird, right?
You will be talked out of writer's block and write into creativity.
Yes, exactly.
And same thing with workouts.
Anyway, for all the little moments of weakness that you might have,
don't worry, Jockel's there.
Get it.
Psychological warfare.
You can even buy the individual tracks, too.
Let's say you're like, just, no, but that's not as good of a deal.
But I mean, really, nine, nine cents.
Yes, it is a good deal.
It's a great deal.
Regardless, in my opinion, because, okay, my whole thing wasn't the wake up early.
It was going from not working out to work in hot.
It's like, okay, I gotta work out today.
But I'm on the computer.
I'm doing something.
I'm like, this is important to me.
Exactly.
I should really focus on my craft.
Yeah.
The workout day becomes a rest day.
You know, in prompt two, you know, kind of, and that was kind of my thing.
But so there's a track for that, you know?
So if all I need is really that track, the diet thing, I'm not, you know, that weak
when it comes to the diet stuff.
So you know, so maybe I don't need it.
But I'm not saying to do that.
I'm saying, there's that option.
So you get to want it.
It's on iTunes.
It's on Amazon Music.
Google Play.
Pretty much anywhere where they sell music.
Online MP3's.
Boom.
It's on there.
It's called like people that want alarm clocks.
People that want alarm clocks.
People that want an alarm clock.
Oh, a ringtone.
Yeah.
Just put it.
No, no.
A alarm clock.
If you want to wake up.
Did like someone telling you to get up.
And that someone's going to get your hot couple.
Yes.
People want me to do something like that.
But I'm like, we already did it.
That's one of the reasons why we did this cycle.
It's a warfare.
Yeah.
So yeah, you download that specific file to your phone and then you, yeah, you'll play.
Make it do.
Yeah.
So the logical warfare, juggle willing.
You can also get juggle white tea on Amazon.
And people ask if I ever drink energy drinks.
And the answer is yes.
A drink juggle white tea.
It's my energy drink.
Sure.
No need any other energy drinks.
That actually sap your energy.
Once their crash hits you.
Talk away to you.
That's not going to happen.
You'll be going strong.
Way the warrior kid.
The book.
I wish I had when I was a kid that shows kids the path.
You can get that book as well as for adults that we need to get on the path.
There's another book coming out October 20, 2017.
Discipline equals freedom field manual.
It's the path.
That's it.
Extreme ownership.
Of course, combat leadership from the battlefield and translated into strategies and
tactics that can be applied in any leadership situation.
Extreme ownership.
Get it and then get it.
Also, you can also get echelon front leadership and management consulting into your company.
You got life, babbin.
You got JP to know.
You got Dave Burke.
And you got me.
You can contact us at info at echelonfront.com.
Of course, the master leadership conference, but not your normal conference.
It's not your normal conference.
So don't whatever you're vision of a conference is I've spoken at a bunch of conferences.
That conference, it's not that.
It's different.
The normal conference, you're waiting for the break and then you're going to disappear
to your hotel room for like 45 minutes.
Waiting for the happy hour.
All that other stuff.
That's not what we're doing here.
The conference at the master.
The master starts today at clock in the morning.
Everyone's there at 7 o'clock in the morning.
After we get done with PT, everyone's there at 7 o'clock in the morning, including all
of us, we're hanging out.
When we started at 8 o'clock, we started at 8 o'clock.
Boom, it's go time.
So it's not just your typical conference thing.
We get after it knowledge, interaction, solving problems.
We go and we go hard.
I just peaked out the microphone.
I don't do that normally.
But we go and we go hard.
Next one is an August, or sorry, an Austin, Texas, July 13th and 14th at the Omni Barton
Crink Resort, which only has 300 people, where over halfway sold out right now.
Register quickly.
If you can't make that, you can come to San Diego, September 14th and 15th for
Master 004.
We look forward to seeing you there.
And until we do see you there, if you want to talk to us, you can find us drifting about
inside the interwebs on Twitter, on Instagram, and on that face-y bull.
Echo is at Echo Charles, and I am at Jocca Willink and as always, to the military personnel
deployed all over the world.
Thanks for everything that you do for us, to the police, firefighters, EMTs, first responders,
thanks for keeping us safe and make sure you stay safe as well to everyone else that's
listening.
Thank you for listening.
Thank you for supporting.
Thank you for spreading the word.
Thank you for getting up early.
And thanks for working harder than your enemy.
And as Echo said earlier, thanks for taking advantage of when times are good because
times will not always be good.
So until next time, this is Echo and Jocco.
See another episode of Echo, an 833 infection patient.
Hello!
Now.